A Brief Practice for Paying Homage and Making Offerings to the Buddha together with his retinue
of Arhats
attributed to Śākyaśrībhadra

laktil tar nyam rinchen gyi trepa
The ground is smooth like the palm of the hand, and bedecked with jewels.
jönshing chu tsö gyenpé sashyi ü
It is adorned with wish-granting trees, rivers and lakes. In its centre,
rinchen lé drub dru shyi go shyipa
In the jewelled palace with its four sides and four doors,
pema nyidé gyenpé den tengdu
Upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
tukjé tsöpé dü kyi dulja nam
Is the compassionate protector of beings, the one who sets
namdrol lam la gödzé drowé gön
The beings of these troubled times on the path to liberation,
tubpa chok dang neten chenpo nam
The supreme Śākyamuni together with the great sthaviras—
khor dang chepa né dir shek su sol
Come now to this place together with your retinues, we pray!

chok chü gyalwa sé ché tamché dang
All the Victorious Ones of the ten directions and their heirs,
sherab mebar nyönmong tso kem shying
The wisdom fire that dries the ocean of destructive emotions,
namdrol sönam shying du kadö pé
And those who abide by the Buddha's words in the field with the merit of complete liberation,
chok chü nyentö gendün shyuk so tsal
The shravaka sangha of the ten directions—all of you please come to this place!
yön jor chöpé né su chendren na
With these offerings we invite you to stay here,
drowé dönchir chö kyi shek su sol
For sentient beings, please let these offerings lead you to this place.
drowé gönpo shakya sengé yi
The protector of wandering beings, the Lion of the Śākyas
sangye tenpa gang gi chak tu shyak
Buddha teachings that you hold in your hands,
sung rab rinchen drom gyi kha jepé
Those who open up the treasury of excellent discourses—
drachom neten chenpo shyuk so tsal
Arhat, great elders, please stay here, we pray!
damchö pelwé ledu chendren na
As we invite you to spread the holy Dharma,
drowé dönchir chö kyi shek su sol
Please let these offerings lead you to this place for sentient beings!

tabkhé tukjé shakyé rik su trung
Through skilful means and compassion, you were born in the Śākya clan,
shyen gyi mitub dü kyi pung jompa
And, utterly invincible, you overcame the forces of Māra,
ser gyi lhünpo tabur jipé ku
Your form resplendent like a mountain of burnished gold—
shakyé gyalpö shyab la chaktsal lo
King of the Śākyas, at your feet I bow!

tubpé kagö tenpé gyaltsen dzin
You who were instructed by the Buddha to uphold the victory banner of the teachings:
yenlak jung dang ma pam naknané
Aṅgaja, Ajita and Vanavāsin,
düden dorjé möbu zangpo dang
Kālika, Vajrīputra and Śrībhadra,
ser bé'u bharadhaja serchen chok
Kanakavatsa and sublime Kanakabhāradvāja,
pakpa bakula dang drachen dzin
The noble Bakula and Rāhula,
lamtren bharadhaja sönyom len
Kṣudrapanthaka and Piṇḍola Bhāradvāja,
lamten lüdé bejé michepa
Panthaka, Nāgasena, Gopaka and Abhedya,
genyen dharmata dang gyalchen shyi
Upāsaka Dharmatāla and the four great kings,
khor dang chepa shyab kyi pemo la
Together with all your retinues—at your lotus feet,
chaktsal kyab chi nying né solwa deb
I prostrate, taking refuge and offering heartfelt prayers!

sashyi pö chü juk shing metok tram
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers;
rirab ling shyi nyidé gyenpa di
It is adorned with Sumeru, the four continents and the sun and moon:
sangye shying du mik té pulwa yi
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
dro kün namdak shying la chöpar shok
By virtue of this offering, may all beings enjoy the happiness of those pure realms.

ngö sham zung rik mö tob kyi trulpé
Both actual offerings and those created through the power of mantras, awareness and aspiration,
chö tsok kün bul diktung tamché shak
All these I offer; I confess all my harmful acts and downfalls;
gé la yirang kul shying solwa deb
I rejoice in all that is virtuous, and request and beseech you!
di tsön gewa changchub chenpor ngo
All this virtue, I dedicate towards great enlightenment!

chomden dendzom chenpo gong su sol
Great conquerors and throne holders, please think of us!
tubwang neten pakpé tsok nam kyi
Lord of sages and gathering of noble sthaviras,
tsen chok tö dang dren jö chakchö tü
By the power of hearing, thinking of, and repeating your names, and paying homage and making
offerings to you,
dakchak lasok semchen gang dang gang
For us and all other beings, whosoever and wheresoever they may be,
nekab tartuk mitün chok kün shyi
May all temporary and ultimate disharmony be pacified,
dekyi chöden paljor rabtu pel
And may happiness, virtue, glory and prosperity increase!

tek chok geweshé kyi jezung né
Inspire us to follow the spiritual teachers of the supreme vehicle,
sung gi dütsi tsowar jingyi lob
And always be sustained by the nectar of their teachings!
tsultrim dak ching tö sam gompar den
Inspire us to maintain pure discipline and engage in study, reflection and meditation,
ngepar jung dang changchub sem nyi jong
So that we may train perfectly in renunciation and twofold bodhicitta,
taktu shyenpen chö lé miyelwé
And, without ever neglecting activity for others' benefit,
namkhyen gopang tobpar jingyi lob
Attain the level of perfect omniscience!

gyalten drimé chok chur dar shying gyé
May the faultless teaching of the Buddha flourish and spread in all directions!
tendzin chok nam shyabpé kal gyar ten
May the supreme holders of the teachings remain for hundreds of kalpas!
jikten gelek chenpö khyabpa dang
May virtue and excellence pervade throughout the world!
dön nyi lhün gyi drubpé tashi shok
And may our own and others’ benefit be spontaneously accomplished!

This prayer is said to have been composed by Śākyaśrī, the Mahāpaṇḍita from Kashmir.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey and Gyurme Avertin, 2015