Accomplishing the Lama through the Seven-Line Prayer
A Special Teaching from the Lama Sangdü
The terma revelation of Guru Chöwang

Homage to the yidam deity!
Fortunate men and women of the future, sons and daughters of an enlightened family, when you
turn to me, the Guru of Orgyen, for refuge, take yourself to an isolated place, and make
deep feelings arise of melancholy at impermanence, and disgust with saṃsāra—this is vital.
Then rely on me completely, heart and soul. Reflect how every kind of refuge, all your hopes,
are all fulfilled and complete within me, the Guru of Orgyen. Whether in happiness or in
sorrow, have total trust and confidence in me.
No need to make offerings or praise; set aside all accumulating; simply let devotion flood your
body, speech and mind, and pray, pray with these seven lines:
hung, orgyen yul gyi nubjang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna
pema gesar dongpo la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngödrub nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
Following in your footsteps,
jingyi lab chir shek su sol
I pray to you: Come, inspire me with your blessing!
guru pema siddhi hung
guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Pray in this way, over and over again.
Create a feeling of yearning and longing so intense that tears spring from your eyes. If the
rapture of devotion overwhelms you, breathe out strongly, and then leave everything as it
is. Clear and awake, focused and undistracted, look within.
For children of mine who pray like this, it goes without saying that they will have my protection,
for they will be the sons and daughters of the buddhas of past, present and future.
They will receive complete empowerment into the awareness of their own enlightened mind.
Their samādhi will be so powerful and stable, that wisdom will naturally blossom and expand.
This great blessing, which arises of its own accord, will dispel all the suffering that will
ripen on you, or be experienced by others. When your mind is transformed, others’ perceptions
will simultaneously change, you will accomplish enlightened activity, and all noble qualities
will be complete within you.
May the sons and daughters of my heart meet with this extraordinary skilful means, one which
ripens and liberates into the dharmakāya realization of my enlightened being.
A practice with a uniquely powerful blessing, the Seven Line Prayer is exceptionally profound;
so let this instruction be an extremely secret treasure of my enlightened mind. May it
meet with one who possesses a mind of wisdom, and is endowed with great compassion, called
Chökyi Wangchuk.

| Rigpa Translations, 2004