Aspiration to Generate Bodhicitta, Utterly Pure and Supreme
by Patrul Rinpoche

namo guru
Namo guru!
kal mang gong né yogyu pangpé tuk
Your mind, many aeons ago, rid itself of all deceit,
chömé tsul pang drang shying denpé sung
Your speech, honest and true, is free of any form of artifice,
tsul chö mi nga tsul dang tünpé ku
Your body's acts are disciplined and unpretentious—
tubpa drangsong chenpo la chaktsal
Great sage, genuine and wise, to you I prostrate!

tubpa dé sé denpé dön zikpé
Buddha's heirs, who have seen the ultimate meaning,
den sung ngawa dentsik drubpé tsok
Speakers of truth, whose words have prophetic power,
tekpa sum gyi tarpé lam shyukpa
Those on the way to liberation through the three vehicles—
dedak kün la güpé chaktsal lo
Before you all, in devotion, I bow down!

dak ni deng né kyé dang tserab su
From now on, in all future rebirths, throughout my lives,
gyalwa sé ché khyé dang mindral shying
Buddhas and bodhisattvas, may I never part from you!
gyalwa sé ché khyé kyi jezung né
Buddhas and bodhisattvas, please accept me as your follower!
gyalwa sé ché khyé shyin drubpar shok
Buddhas and bodhisattvas, let me gain accomplishment just like you!

lü chö tsul chö mepar dulwa dang
My body's actions—may they be disciplined and unpretentious,
ngak tsik dzün tam mepar denpa dang
My speech—may it be honest, without falsity or deception,
sem chö yogyu mepar drangwa yi
My mind—may it be genuine, without artifice or deceit,
chö tün drok dang shenyen tenpar shok
And may I rely upon spiritual guides and true Dharma friends!

tarpé lam la dangpo jukpé go
The first entrance to the path of liberation,
khorwé né né dangpo dröpé lam
The first route of escape from saṃsāra's perils,
nyamlen chö nam kün gyi dangpö go
The first preliminary to all practices of Dharma:
chömin ngejung gyü la kyewar shok
Genuine renunciation—may it dawn within my mind!

yö na sangye drub la dé chok ching
With it, I have all that's needed to attain enlightenment,
mé na sangye drub la tab chakpa
And without it, there's no way to find awakening,
sangye drubpé sabön ma norwa
The indisputable seed from which buddhahood is gained,
namdak changchub sem chok kyepar shok
May I generate bodhicitta, utterly pure and supreme!

gong né gong du changchub sem chok pel
Further and further, may supreme bodhicitta develop,
tserab küntu changchub sem mi jé
Throughout my lives, may bodhicitta never be forgotten,
yang dang yang du changchub sem gom né
Again and again, may I meditate on bodhicitta,
changchub sempé chö la jukpar shok
And always train in the way of the bodhisattva!

tubpa chok dang jampal pawo dang
Whatever the enlightened actions of the great Sage,
kuntuzangpö chöpa gang yinpa
Heroic Mañjuśrī, or Samantabhadra,
dak gi tserab chö kün dedrawar
In all my lives, may my own actions be equal to theirs,
gyur né dön nyi chöpa lhündrub shok
And spontaneously may I accomplish my own and others' welfare!

tsé chik sangye drubpé lamzang chen
Excellent path, which brings about buddhahood in but a single lifetime,
dü chik dön nyi drubpé tab khé po
With skilful methods to benefit oneself and others at one and the same time,
tsul chik khordé yermé tawa yi
And the view of a single reality in which saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are inseparable—
lam chik dorjé tekpar jukpar shok
May I embark upon this unique path of the vajra vehicle!

lam di lam gom dorjé dzinpé tsok
Hosts of vajra holders, who cultivate the approach of this path,
kün la detong kyepé drok gyi ching
Taking as partners those who bring about blissful emptiness,
lhenchik kyepa tsönpé gor gyurpé
As a way for co-emergent wisdom to be introduced—
lam chik khandrö ling du rolwar shok
May this unique path be enjoyed in the realm of the ḍākinīs!

chöma pangpé semnyi nyukmé shyal
The face of my original nature, mind itself, left unaltered,
chöma minpar rang ngo jenpar tong
My very own essence, beyond contrivance—may I see it laid bare!
chö lé dralwé nyamshyak gyün kyang té
Sustaining meditation untainted by any trace of alteration,
chömé dön gyi drebu tobpar shok
May I gain the ultimate fruition free from any fabrication!

nekab su yang sampé dön kün drub
In the meantime, may all my wishes be fulfilled!
sönpé tsé na sampa ngenpa mé
For as long as I live, may I have no negative intentions,
chiwé tsé na né chö dukngal mé
And when I die, may I not suffer a painful death,
shi né trulnang jiktrak mepar shok
Having died, may there be no fear of delusory appearances!

dak tong tö dang dren rek drowa kün
May all who see me, hear me, think of me, or come in contact with me in any way,
ngejung changchub sem dang lhenchik kyé
Develop renunciation, bodhicitta, and co-emergent wisdom
jitar rigpa jishyin gyü kyé né
In whichever way is appropriate within their minds,
nyurdu dzokpé sangye tobpar shok
So that, swiftly, they may arrive at perfect buddhahood!

sangye nyima tsenpé shyal tong shying
May I behold the sun-like Buddha with his signs and marks,
damchö nyima nying gi dütsir chö
May I savour the nectar of the sun-like Dharma in my heart,
gendün nyima tarpé drok gyur né
And may the sun-like Saṅgha accompany me to liberation—
chok sum nyimé ö dang mindral shok
From the light of these three sun-like Supreme Ones, may I never part!1

To fulfil the wishes of the practitioner Nyima, this was written by Palge, the mere reflection
of a genuine monk. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey 2010. Many thanks to Alak Zenkar Rinpoche. Revised 2012& 2020.
↑ Here Patrul Rinpoche plays on the word nyima, meaning sun, which is the name of the person
who requested the prayer.