Chapter Six: The Prayer Requested by Prince Mutri Tsenpo

Next, it was the prince Mutri Tsenpo who made a request:
“O great master! You have said that in the future, when the dark age of the final five hundred
years arrives, sentient beings, driven by their negative karma, must experience only misery.
For them, I request a prayer, one that invokes your compassion for them, and possesses
the power to protect them from suffering!”
This was his reply:
“Listen well, Mutri Tsenpo! Without boiling, the colour of dye will never take; without the
field of devotion, the seedlings of enlightenment cannot grow! Without single-minded conviction,
the blessings of the Three Jewels will be far off!
“Listen, prince! Buddhas and bodhisattvas act ceaselessly to benefit beings. Yet they cannot
free them from the depths of samsara, because, among beings in the six realms, ego-grasping
caused by the five poisons is just so strong. Prince, if you wish to protect your Tibetan
people in the future from suffering, make a declaration to your subjects, telling them
to develop stable and unswerving devotion, and to have total trust in  the Three Jewels.
“Now recite this prayer, constantly and with devotion:
emaho, nubchok dewachen gyi shyingkham su
Emaho: O wonder! In Dewachen, ‘Blissful’ pure realm in the west,
gönpo tsepakmé kyi tukjé yi
Lord Amitāyus, with all of his compassion,
dzambüling du drowé dön la gong
Directed his wisdom mind towards  benefitting beings in this world of Jambudvīpa;
chok chü sangye kün gyi jinlab pé
Then all the buddhas of the ten directions granted their blessing.
dü sum deshek nam la solwa deb
To you, the sugatas of past, present and future, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

sindhu gyatso rolpé tso ling du
On an island in the Sindhu sea,
metok pema barwé dongpo la
On a shimmering lotus flower,
pa dang mamé rangjung shuk lé jung
With no father, no mother, naturally arising,
gyumé kyenmé drowé dön la jön
With no cause, no conditions, you came to bring benefit to beings,
rangjung ngotsar chen la solwa deb
To you, wondrous and self-arising, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

sangye kün gyi ku yi trulpa té
As the emanation of the wisdom body of all buddhas,
rangjung tsen dang pejé denpar jön
You appeared naturally possessing all the major and minor marks,
nyima tong gi ö lé zidang ché
Your splendour more dazzling than the light of a thousand suns.
khyö kyi trulpé jikten khyabpar gyé
Your emanations stream out to fill the entire world:
yatsen trulpé ku la solwa deb
To you, the wonderful nirmāṇakāya manifestation, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

sangye kün gyi sung gi trulpa té
As the emanation of the wisdom speech of all buddhas,
ma chak pemé dongpö tsé lé trung
You were born on the lotus of non-attachment,
drukchen tong gi drawé sung dang ché
Your speech is mightier than the roar of a thousand great dragons,
drowé döndu tekchen chö dra drok
Proclaiming the sound of the Mahāyāna teachings, to benefit all beings,
druk tar drokpé sung la solwa deb
To the dragon-like sound of your speech, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

sangye kün gyi tuk kyi trulpa té
As the emanation of the wisdom mind of all buddhas,
gyatso ting tamepé long lé kyé
You were born from the fathomless, endless ocean,
namkhé lok lé tukjé trinlé nyur
Your compassionate actions are swifter than lightning striking through the sky,
gongpa zabmo namkhé ta dang nyam
Your vision as deep as the infinite expanse of space,
chiryang salé tuk la solwa deb
To your wisdom mind, where everything arises in vivid clarity, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

drowé döndu yishyin norbü ku
Your perfect form is a wish-granting gem for helping beings,
khyö kyi tsen tö tsam gyi dukngal sel
Simply hearing your name dispels all suffering,
jatsön shyindu yönten sosor sal
Like the colours of a rainbow, your noble qualities each shine out distinctly,
kechik drenpé changchub lam na dren
To think of them, for even an instant, is to be led down the path to enlightenment,
yönten künjung khyö la solwa deb
To you who are the source of every noble quality, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tukjé trinlé wang gi dön dzepé
The power of your compassionate actions brings benefit everywhere,
shyi gyé wang drak trinlé nam shyi yi
Pacifying, increasing, magnetizing and subjugating,
nyönmong dul ké semchen tab kyi dul
You skilfully train sentient beings, with their turbulent emotions so difficult to tame.
namkhé kar tar trinlé sam mikhyab
Like the stars in the night sky, your enlightened actions are vast beyond conception,
trinlé gyatsö lab la solwa deb
To you whose activity rises as a great wave in the ocean, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tengok chok shyir drowé dön dzé kyang
Above, below and in the four directions, you act to benefit beings,
böyul khawachen du tukjé zik
So turn your compassionate gaze now on the world and on Tibet, the land of snows,
bö kyi ngadak jebang tamché la
Inspire our rulers, and the rulers of Tibet and all their subjects,
dü sum gyünché mepar jingyi lob
Grant them your blessing, throughout the past, the present and into the future, without any
break!
khorwa dukngal gyi gyatso lé dral du sol
Release us all from samsara’s ocean of suffering—this we pray!
This is what he said.
Conclusion
At this point, all five of those who had made requests offered a vast and splendid tsok feast,
prostrated and circumambulated Guru Rinpoche, and then they asked:
“O great master! You have shown immense kindness in teaching us special prayers like these.
But such prayers should not be chanted in the everyday jabbering sounds of ordinary people.
In the future, when people like us are faced with suffering, when we think of you, the master,
and we recite these prayers, what kind of melody should we use?”
This was his reply:
“You followers of mine, you who wish to leave samsara behind, pray with unswerving faith and
devotion. Pray with single-minded focus, in a melody full of longing and yearning, like an
infant calling to its parents—a sound as sweet as a guitar or a flute. And pray like this
during the six times of day and night!”
The four and a half ślokas (eighteen lines) below were added by the emanation of Trisong Detsen,
the glorious Tashi Topgyal:
ché sung ngön gyi tukdam shyalshyé shyin
Just as you promised long ago with these words of yours,
gü shing dungshuk drakpö soldeb bur
These, your children, are praying now with yearning and devotion:
kyema tukjé zik shik maha guru
Kyema!  Look on us with your compassion: O Great Guru,
jingyi lob shik jetsün tötreng tsal
Inspire us with your blessing: Jetsün Tötreng Tsal!
barché kün sol düdul drakpo tsal
Dispel all our obstacles, Düdul Drakpo Tsal!
ngödrub chok tsol orgyen rinpoche
Grant us the supreme siddhi, Orgyen Rinpoche!

danta tsödü ngabgyé nyikdü dir
Now, in this age of strife, the degenerate age among the five hundred year periods,
jungpö gyü truk kyewö lokpar tsé
When our minds are deranged by jungpo demons and we cause only harm and wrongdoing,
ta yi makpung né tsön mugé sok
Pacify warfare and sickness, violence, famine and the like—
jur dang té ngen nöpa kün shyi shying
Pacify disasters and evil omens, and every kind of harm!
gyalwé ten dang khyepar tek gü sol
Let the holders of the buddhas’ teaching, and especially of the tradition of the nine yānas,
dé dzin tsok nam dar min gyé gyur chik
Develop, mature and increase!

püntsok samyé lhündrub podrang né
When the place was the spontaneously perfect palace of Samyé, the sublime,
pemajungné lam zab chö tönpa
The teacher was Padmasambhava, revealing the teachings of the profound path,
tekchen gyalsi rinchen na dün chö
The teachings possessed the seven precious qualities of sovereignty of the Mahāyāna,
kalden lechen dakpa na ngé khor
The disciples were those five pure ones, those with fortunate karma,
ökar gyal gyi gangwé tashi dü
And the time was when auspiciousness overflowed, like the victorious white light of the full
moon rising:
deng dir sampa lhündrub tashi shok
So, now—here too—may all be auspicious for our wishes to be spontaneously fulfilled!
“In times to come, the final age, a follower of mine from the west, a hidden yogin1 will bring
tremendous benefit to beings, and possess exceptional devotion for me. With few doubts,
he will protect the family line of the Dharma Kings. A fortunate one such as him will appear
in the dark and decadent age.
“Conceal this as a terma, for the benefit of him and those who have the karmic connection and
good fortune! Sa Ma Gatha!”
↑ This is said to refer to Rigdzin Gödem Chen. Tulku Zangpo Drakpa revealed the terma in the
Male Water Tiger year (1362) from Guru Rinpoche’s retreat cave at Drompa Gyong in Rulak,
and gave it to Rigdzin Gödem Chen to decipher.