Chapter Five: The Prayer Requested by Nanam Dorjé Dudjom

Then, Nanam Dorjé Dudjom made his request:
“O great master! In you are embodied all the buddhas’ perfect forms, in your wisdom speech all
the buddhas’ speech, in your wisdom mind all the buddhas' minds. Compassionate one, you
are all the sugatas in one.
“O Padmākara, pure form of the Conquerors, no other buddha can surpass you. For me, and for
the benefit of the future, grant us a prayer, about how you came and what you did, one which
we can depend upon, to fill us with inspiration, and make conviction and devotion blossom
within us.
“With your compassion, teach us a prayer that carries the blessing of your speech—this is my
request!”
He replied:
“Listen, yogi who practises the mantras!  My life and my actions are beyond the imagination,
and defy all telling. Yet I shall explain, a little, about how I have acted to benefit beings
through manifesting in this world of Jambudvīpa, and in Tibet. So listen, listen with
devotion! And recite this prayer without any interruption.”
So he spoke.
emaho, lhonub ngayab lingtren sinpö yul
Emaho: O wonder! To the south-west, in the continent of Ngayab, land of rakṣasas,
sindhu gyatso rolpö tso ling du
Lies the ocean of Sindhu, where, on an island
lugyal jokpo nepé khang tengdu
Above the palace of Takṣaka, king of nāgas,
pema barwé dongpö tsé lé trung
You were born, upon the heart of a shimmering lotus blossom.
rangjung ngotsar chen la solwa deb
To you, wondrous and self-arising, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

pa dang ma mé khyé'u trulpé ku
With no father, no mother, you manifested as a child,
gyumé kyenmé gyatsö long lé jön
With no cause, no conditions, you appeared in the vastness of the ocean,
marik lokpé semchen drenpé pal
Awe-inspiring guide for sentient beings led astray by ignorance.
deshek ku sung tuk kyi trulpa té
Emanation of the body, speech and mind of all the sugatas,
tulku tsokyé dorjé la solwa deb
To the nirmāṇakāya Tsokyé Dorjé, ‘The Lake-born Vajra’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

lechen gyalpo indrabhuti yi
Because of his karmic destiny, the fortunate King Indrabhūti
gyatso chenpö ling né nyé dé jön
Came to find you on that island in the vast ocean.
depé chendrang gyalpor ngasol dzé
Out of his devotion he invited you, and enthroned you as king,
gyalsi chö kyi trim kyi dé la kö
And with the law of Dharma you established the whole kingdom in happiness:
gyalpo torchok chen la solwa deb
To the sovereign Tortokchen, the ‘Turbaned King’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

lhochok silwa tsal gyi durtrö du
In the southern charnel ground the ‘Chilly Grove’, Śītavana,
gyalsi pang né tulshyuk chöpa dzé
Once you had renounced the kingdom, you practised yogic discipline,
tana gané jordrol gongpa yi
And with the realization gained from the practice of union and liberation,
mamo khandro tamché wang du dü
You brought all the mamos and ḍākinīs under your power.
shantarakshita la solwa deb
To Śāntarakṣita, ‘Guardian of Peace’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

chok shyi durtrö küntu chöpa dzé
East, south, west and north—in every charnel ground you practised,
yeshe khandro nam kyi jin gyi lab
Where the wisdom ḍākinīs infused you with their blessing.
dorjé pakmö shyal tong ngödrub tob
Vajravārāhī appeared to you, face to face, and you obtained the siddhis,
namkhé zachen tamché dren du kol
Making all the great planetary forces in space your servants:
dorjé drakpo tsal la solwa deb
To Dorjé Drakpo Tsal, ‘Powerful Vajra Wrath’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

drak mar jakhyung tsal gyi ké'u tsang du
In the red rock cave Garuḍa Grove,
lobpön prabhahasti chen ngar jön
You met the master Prabhāhasti,
naljor yogé chö la jangpa dzé
And trained in the teachings of Yoga Tantra,
yogé lhatsok nam kyi shyalzikpé
Till the whole assembly of Yoga deities appeared before your eyes:
shakya sengé ku la solwa deb
To the perfect form of Shakya Sengé, ‘Lion of the Śākyas’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

gyagar yul gyi chok shyi né chen du
In India’s great places of power, in the east and south and west and north,
rigdzin drubtob mangpö chen ngar jön
You studied with countless vidyādharas and siddhas,
yoga nam sum chö la jangpa dzé
And trained in the teachings of the three inner yogas,
tsennyi gyu yi chö kyi drondok ché
Cutting all doubts about the causal Dharma of characteristics:
khepa loden chok sé la solwa deb
To the learned Loden Choksé, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

drakpuk maratiké ké'u tsang du
In the rock cave of Māratika,
chimé tsé yi rigdzin drubpé tsé
Where you accomplished the state of vidyādhara of immortal life,
gönpo tsepakmé kyi jin gyi lab
Lord Amitāyus granted you his blessing, and
kyechi mepa dorjé lü su gyur
You attained the indestructible vajra body, free from birth and death:
chimé pemajungné la solwa deb
To Padmākara the deathless, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

zahor gyalkham dul du shekpé tsé
When you went to tame the kingdom of Zahor,
marik trulpé semchen chö la tsü
To bring to the Dharma sentient beings deluded by ignorance,
yatsen medu jungwé dzutrul ten
The miracles you performed were wondrous and amazing,
gyalkham tamché chö kyi gangwar dzé
And filled the entire kingdom with the Buddhadharma.
padmasambhé ku la solwa deb
To Padmasambhava, ‘the Lotus-born’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

orgyen gyalkham dul du shekpé tsé
When you went to tame the kingdom of Orgyen,
shemé mé yi ü su sekpa na
And executioners sought to burn you on a pyre,
mepung tso ru gyur té dzutrul ten
You displayed the miracle of transforming the inferno into a lake,
indrabhuti changchub lam la kö
And set King Indrabhūti on the path to enlightenment:
sé chok pema gyalpo la solwa deb
To the supreme prince Padma Gyalpo, ‘Lotus King’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

womin né dang dechen durtrö dang
In the realm of Akaniṣṭha, and the charnel grounds ‘Great Bliss’,
lhündrub tsek dang pema tsek lasok
‘Spontaneous Mound’, ‘Lotus Mound’ and the others —
rangjung chöten drung du shyukpé tsé
When you stayed in these naturally arising sacred places,
mamo khandro chökyong khor gyi kor
Mamos, ḍākinīs and Dharma protectors thronged around you:
guru nyima özer la solwa deb
To Guru Nyima Özer, ‘Rays of the Sun’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

lhochok gyagar yul du shekpé tsé
When you went to the south, in the land of India,
khandro düdul ma yi jin gyi lab
You were blessed by the ḍākinī ‘The Mistress who Subjugates Negativity’, Khandro Düdul Ma;
mutek tönpa ngabgyé tsöpa dok
You defeated five hundred tīrthika teachers in debate,
ngen ngak dakpo mutek tok gi dral
And brought down lightning to liberate their masters of sorcery:
pakpa sengé dradrok la solwa deb
To the noble Sengé Dradok, ‘Lion’s Roar’, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

balyul yangléshö kyi drakpuk tu
In the rock cave of Yangleshö in Nepal,
yangdak dechen nyingpo drubpé tsé
You accomplished the practice of Yangdak, ‘Essence of Great Bliss’,
barché gek nam dorjé purpé dral
Liberating all obstacles and obstructors through Vajrakīla;
chakgya chenpö ngödrub né der tob
And, in this sacred place, you attained the siddhi of mahāmudrā:
dorjé tötreng tsal la solwa deb
To Dorjé Tötreng Tsal, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

jangchok gyalpö dön la jönpé tsé
When you travelled north to help the king,
bö kyi nöjin tamché dam latak
You bound all the harmful forces of Tibet under oath;
samyé ngasol gyalpö gongpa drub
Consecrating Samyé, you fulfilled the vision of the king,
böyul tamché chö kyi gangwar dzé
Filling every corner of Tibet with the Dharma:
tulku pemajungné la solwa deb
To the nirmāṇakāya, Padmākara, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

samyé chimpü drak mar ké'u tsang du
In the Red Rock Cave of Samyé Chimphu,
drubchen kagyé sang ngak kyilkhor du
You matured those fortunate ones, the king and subjects,
lechen gyalpo jebang minpar dzé
Empowering them into the mandala of the Secret Mantrayāna, the great sādhanas of Kagyé.
sang ngak drebü tekpa gyepar dzé
You made the resultant vehicle of the secret mantras spread far and wide:
kadrin sam lé dé la solwa deb
To you, whose kindness is beyond all imagining, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

taktsang sengé samdrub ké'u tsang du
At the Tiger’s Lair, in the cave called ‘Fulfilment of the Lion’s Wishes’,
dukpé mutek dü dang damsi tul
You subjugated malicious tīrthikas, māras and damsi demons;
né chen gang drak nam la terchen bé
In power-places, amid snow and rock, you hid the great termas,
ma ong nyikmé semchen tukjé zik
Gazing in compassion on sentient beings still to come in this degenerate age:
dorjé drolö tsal la solwa deb
To Dorjé Drolö Tsal, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

bö kyi gang chen shyi la drubkhang dzé
On the four great snow mountains of Tibet, you made your hermitages,
drakpuk chenpo gyé la yang wen dzé
In the eight great rock caves, you went into isolated retreats,
chok shyi drak la tulkü shyabjé shyak
On stone in the four directions, you left your footprint,
drakpé tso chen shyi la chakjé shyak
At the four famous lakes, you left your hand-print:
dro druk drib jong dzé la solwa deb
To you who purify the obscurations of beings in the six realms, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

lhochok mönkhé drak la ku jé shyak
To the south, in Bhutan, you left the imprint of your body in the solid rock.
kutsab ter nga bö kyi dön la shyak
To benefit Tibet, you left the five terma statues to be your representatives,
sangye tenpa ta ru gyepar dzé
You made the buddhas’ teaching spread to the borderlands and beyond,
bö kyi lha chik drowa yong kyi pal
Sole deity of Tibet, glorious inspiration of all beings:
tukjé khyepar chen la solwa deb
To you whose compassion is unique, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

lhonub ngayab lingtren palri tser
South-west of here, in Ngayab Ling, on the peak of the Mountain of Glory,
rigdzin khandro mangpö gyalpo dzé
You rule as sovereign among countless vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
shaza sinpo tamché dam latak
Binding all the cannibal rakṣasas under oath,
bö la gyünché mepar tukjé zik
Ceaselessly you turn your compassionate gaze on Tibet and on the world:
drinchen trulpé ku la solwa deb
To you, the nirmāṇakāya, and to your kindness, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

ngabgyé tamar bö kyi semchen la
During this last five hundred year period, wherever we sentient beings, whether in Tibet or
anywhere in the world,
lé ngen wang gi dukngal gyünché mé
Suffer with no relief, oppressed by our negative karma—
khyö kyi namtar dren ching soldeb na
When we remember your life, when we pray to you,
dak dang dro druk semchen tamché la
Look on us and all sentient beings in the six realms with your compassion,
tukjé zik la jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings!
“Dorjé Dudjom, listen with real devotion, remember my life and liberation, and recite this prayer!
Then in this very life I, Padma, shall bless you, and in the next, it is certain you
will traverse the path to enlightenment.”
This is what he said.