Chapter Two: The Prayer Requested by King Tri Songdetsen

Then the king, Tri Songdetsen, made this request:
“O great master! For me and for those in the future who have devotion, I request you to grant
us a prayer to recite in the morning and the evening, that will grant the blessings of all
the sugatas of past, present and future; that will remove the obstacles for this life;
and that in the next life will confer the supreme siddhi of mahāmudrā.”
The Guru replied: “Great king! Listen well!”
emaho, sangye tenpa mejung samyé la
Emaho: O wonder! In the teachings of the buddhas, extraordinary and beyond conception,
khyepar pakpé tenpa nam sum jön
The especially sublime teaching will be revealed three times.
sangye shakya tubpé shyingkham dir
Now, here in the realm of the Buddha Śākyamuni
sang ngak dorjé tekpé tenpa jön
This teaching of the Secret Mantrayāna has come:
tenpa rinpoche la solwa deb
To this precious teaching, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

womin lhün gyi drubpé podrang du
In the palace of Akaniṣṭha, spontaneously perfect,
dü sum dewar shekpé gongpa yi
The sugatas of the three times, in their wisdom, saw
matram rudra kago lokpa lé
How Matram Rudra betrayed their commands,
dro druk semchen dukngal nyamtak zik
Tormenting the beings of the six realms with suffering.
tukjé ngotsar chen la solwa deb
To those with wondrous compassion, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

changlochen gyi podrang dampa ru
In the sacred palace of Alakāvatī
deshyin shekpa tamché kadrö dzé
The tathāgatas all consulted and determined,
shyi gyé wang drak trinlé nam shyi yi
Through the four enlightened activities—pacifying, increasing, magnetizing and subjugating,
lokpa dü kyi tenpa dulwar dzé
To put an end to the teachings of this perverse and evil demon.
dü sum deshek nam la solwa deb
To the sugatas of past, present and future, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

riwo malaya namchak barwé tser
On Mount Malaya’s blazing peak of meteoric iron,
düpo matram rudra drakpö dral
You wrathfully liberated the demon Matram Rudra,
sinmo ma tsok nam la jorwa dzé
And united with the hordes of rakṣasis.
sang ngak tenpa dangpo dené jön
And so the teaching of the secret mantras first came;
dulja khyepar chen la solwa deb
To this special one who had to be subjugated, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

womin chö kyi ying kyi podrang du
In the Akaniṣṭha palace of the dharmadhātu,
dü sum kyegak mepa chö kyi ku
Is the dharmakāya, which neither comes into being nor ceases, in the past, present or future,
chö nam namdak yené lhün gyi drub
Where all dharmas are completely pure, and from the beginning spontaneously perfect.
sangye tamché tuk lé kyepé yab
To the father who generates all buddhas from his wisdom mind:
chöku kuntuzangpo la solwa deb
To Samantabhadra, the dharmakāya, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

dechen lhün gyi drubpé shyingkham su
In the pure realm of Spontaneously Perfect Great Bliss,
timuk namdak chöying yeshe ngang
Embodying the wisdom of dharmadhātu, which is bewilderment in its natural purity,
nampar nang dzé longchö dzokpé ku
Vairocana presides as the saṃbhogakāya,
ku yi rik chok rik kyi khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, the supreme family of the Wisdom Body.
buddha rik kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you—deities of the Buddha family, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

sharchok ngönpar gawé shyingkham su
In the east, in the pure realm of Manifest Joy,
shyedang namdak melong yeshe ngang
Embodying mirror-like wisdom, which is anger in its natural purity,
dorjé sempa longchö dzokpé ku
Vajrasattva presides as the saṃbhogakāya,
tuk kyi rik chok rik kyi khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, the supreme family of the Wisdom Mind.
dorjé rik kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you—deities of the Vajra family, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

lhochok palden dzepé shyingkham su
In the south, in the pure realm Beauty in Glory,
ngagyal namdak nyamnyi yeshe ngang
Embodying equalizing wisdom, which is pride in its natural purity,
rinchen jungné longchö dzokpé ku
Ratnasambhava presides as the saṃbhogakāya,
yönten rik chok rik kyi khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, the supreme family of Noble Qualities.
rinchen rik kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you—deities of the Ratna family, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

nubchok dewachen gyi shyingkham su
In the west, in the pure realm The Blissful,
döchak namdak sortok yeshe ngang
Embodying the wisdom of discernment, which is desire in its natural purity,
nangwa tayé longchö dzokpé ku
Amitābha presides as the saṃbhogakāya,
sung gi rik chok rik kyi khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, the supreme family of Wisdom Speech.
pema rik kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you—deities of the Padma family, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

jangchok lerab dzokpé shyingkham su
In the north, in the pure realm Complete and Perfect Action,
trakdok namdak ja drub yeshe ngang
Embodying all-accomplishing wisdom, which is jealousy in its natural purity,
dönyö drubpa longchö dzokpé ku
Amoghasiddhi presides as the saṃbhogakāya,
trinlé rik chok rik kyi khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, the supreme family of Enlightened Activity.
karma rik kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you—deities of the Karma family, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

chöying rolpé shyalyé chenpo na
In the measureless mansion of the play of dharmadhātu,
nyönmong duk nga dzipé den tengdu
Trampling on the five poisons of the negative emotions,
trowö gyalpo chemchok heruka
Rages the sovereign among wrathful deities, Chemchok Heruka,
rik nga deshek düpé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his retinue of all the sugatas of the five families gathered together:
kunzang heruké lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Samantabhadra Heruka and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tukjé rolpé shyalyé chenpo na
In the great mansion of the play of compassion,
ma dü drekpa dzipé den tengdu
Trampling the female arrogant demons underfoot,
ngöndzok gyalpo chemchok heruka
Is Ngöndzok Gyalpo, the heruka Great and Sublime, ‘King of Manifest Perfection’,
yeshe lé drub mamö khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his retinue of mamos of wisdom and activity:
chemchok mamö lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Chemchok and your hordes of mamos, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tingnak drusum barwé shyalyé na
In a dark blue three-sided mansion, blazing with fire,
matram rudra dzipé den tengdu
Trampling on Matram Rudra,
tuk kyi daknyi benza heruka
Is Vajra Heruka, embodiment of the wisdom mind.
traktung trowo barwé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his retinue of blazing, raging herukas,
palchen heruké lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, the great, awesome heruka and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tingnak é lé drakpö shyalyé na
In the wrathful mansion that arises from the dark blue syllable é,
shinjé chu lang dzipé den tengdu
Trampling on Yama, the water buffalo,
jampal yamantaka shinjé shé
Is Mañjuśrī in the form of Yamāntaka, slayer of the Lord of Death,
shepo trowo drekpé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his horde of wild and wrathful slaughterers:
shinjé shepö lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Yamāntaka and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

mar nak drusum wang gi shyalyé na
In the dark red triangular mansion of power,
dü nak pomo dzipé den tengdu
Treading on the dark māra demons, male and female,
wang gi gyalpo pema heruka
Arises Padma Heruka, king of power,
pema rik kyi trowo nam kyi kor
Surrounded by the wrathful deities of the Padma family
tamdrin wang gi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, mighty Hayagrīva and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

kalpa mé tar barwé shyalyé na
In the mansion which blazes like the inferno at the end of a kalpa,
po dü drekpa dzipé den tengdu
Trampling arrogant male demons,
palchen dorjé shyönnu pawö ku
Is the great and glorious Vajrakumāra, his form like a warrior’s,
düdul tro chu tra tab khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his retinue: the ten wrathful ones, who subjugate māras, with their aides, the
tratap.
dorjé purwé lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Vajrakīla and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

pema wang gi shyalyé chenpo na
In the great mansion of the Lotus of Power,
ma chak pema barwé den tengdu
Seated on a shining lotus flower of non-attachment,
chomden gönpo yeshe tsepakmé
Presides the enlightened one, the lord of wisdom and longevity, Amitāyus,
chimé tsé yi lhatsok nam kyi kor
Surrounded by all the deities of immortality and long life:
dorjé tsé yi lhatsok la solwa deb
To all you deities of indestructible vajra life, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

durtrö ngam ji rolpé shyalyé na
In the mansion on the charnel ground Display of Horror,
tira genkyal dzipé den tengdu
Trampling on the corpse of the supine demon Tira,
yumchen tromo dorjé pakmö ku
Dances the great wrathful mother, Vajravārāhī,
mamo khandro lhatsok khor gyi kor
Encircled by her retinue of mamos and ḍākinīs:
dorjé naljormé lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Vajrayoginī and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

gyagar dorjé den gyi podrang du
At the palace of the Vajra seat in India,
gyundré denpé drowé dön dzé ching
Is the one who brings benefit to beings through teaching the truth of cause and effect,
denö sum gyi tenpé gyaltsen tsuk
Who raises the victory banner of the teachings of the tripiṭaka,
nyentö changchub sempé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage of śrāvakas and bodhisattvas:
tulku shakya tubpa la solwa deb
To you, the nirmāṇakāya Śākyamuni, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

dhanakosha lu yi podrang du
In the palace of the nāgas at Dhanakośa
tukjé tob kyi drowé dön la jön
Is the one who, through the power of his compassion, comes to benefit beings.
gyalwé gongpé dro druk rangdrol dzé
And, through the buddhas' enlightened vision, causes beings of the six realms to find self-liberation.
khandro dé nga mamö khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, the five classes of ḍākinīs:
tulku garab dorjé la solwa deb
To you, the nirmāṇakāya, Garab Dorjé, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

gyanak riwo tsé ngé podrang du
In the palace of the Five-Peaked Mountain in China,
sangye ku yi trulpa jampal yang
Is Mañjughoṣa, emanation of the buddhas’ wisdom body,
tengok chok shyir ku yi dro dön dzé
Bringing benefit to beings in the four directions, above and below, through his perfect form,
ku yi changchub sempé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage of bodhisattvas of the wisdom body:
pakpa jampal gyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, the noble Mañjuśrī and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

né chen riwo talé podrang du
At the great power-place, the palace of Mount Potala,
sangye sung gi trulpa chenrezig
Is Avalokiteśvara, emanation of the buddhas’ wisdom speech,
tengok chok shyir sung gi dro dön dzé
Bringing benefit to beings in the four directions, above and below, with his speech,
sung gi changchub sempé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage of  bodhisattvas of wisdom speech:
chenrezig kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Avalokiteśvara and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

né chok changlochen gyi podrang du
At the supreme place of power, the palace of Alakāvatī,
sangye tuk kyi trulpa dorjé dzin
Is Vajrapāṇi, emanation of the buddhas’ wisdom mind,
tengok chok shyir tuk kyi dro dön dzé
Benefitting beings in the four directions, above and below, with his mind,
tuk kyi changchub sempé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage of bodhisattvas of wisdom mind:
chaknadorjé lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Vajrapāṇi and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tengchok nampar gyalwé khang zang du
Above, in the exquisite palace of Complete Victory,
pakpa jampal tuk kyi gongpa yi
Through the vision of Mañjuśrī’s wisdom mind,
lhawang gyajin né su sang ngak jön
The secret mantra teachings appeared in the realm of Indra, king of the gods,
tsombu bum dangché té ngön sangye
And one hundred thousand attained true enlightenment:
lha yi rigdzin nam la solwa deb
To you, the vidyādharas among the gods, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

ochok gyatso chenpö ting rum du
Below, in the depths of the great ocean,
chenrezig wang tuk kyi gongpa yi
Through the vision of Lord Avalokiteśvara’s wisdom mind,
lugyal jokpö né su sang ngak jön
The secret mantra teachings appeared in the realm of Takṣaka, king of the nāgas,
tsombu bum dangché té ngön sangye
And one hundred thousand attained true enlightenment:
lu yi rigdzin nam la solwa deb
To you, the vidyādharas among the nāgas, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

ri gyal meri barwé tsemo ru
On the summit of the Blazing Fiery Volcano, king of mountains,
chaknadorjé tuk kyi gongpa yi
Through the vision of Vajrapāṇi’s wisdom mind,
gyalpo dza yi né su sang ngak jön
The secret mantra teachings appeared in the realm of King Ja,
gangzak lechen malü changchub tob
And every single individual with the karmic destiny attained enlightenment:
mi yi rigdzin nam la solwa deb
To you, the vidyādharas among humans, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

nubchok orgyen wang gi podrang du
In the powerful palace of Orgyen, in the west,
deshek ku sung tuk kyi trulpa té
Is the emanation of the sugatas’ body, speech and mind,
dzambuling du drowé dön la jön
Who came to this world of ours to benefit beings.
rigdzin khandro mangpö khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage of countless vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
pemajungné kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Padmakāra and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

chöku longku tulku yangtrul dang
To the dharmakāya, saṃbhogakāya, nirmāṇakāya, with your further emanations, and
dé dang majön danta dü sum gyi
To all the buddhas, vidyādharas and bodhisattvas throughout the whole of time,
chok chü sangye rigdzin changsem la
And through all dimensions of space:
dakchak lü ngak yi sum güpa yi
With devotion and longing filling our body, speech and mind,
yinyi tetsom mepar solwa deb
With no trace of hesitation or doubt, to you we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!
This is what he said.
“O Great King, do not let yourself fall under the power of the fame and distractions of this
life, but pray continuously! The root of the secret mantra path is to keep the samaya. The
roots of the samaya are devotion and diligence. And the root of these two is to pray to
your master and your yidam deity. Someone who is diligent and puts this into practice will
obtain the supreme siddhi of mahāmudrā in this very lifetime.”
So he spoke.