Chapter Three: The Prayer Requested by Khandro Yeshé Tsogyal

Then the ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal made her request:
“O great master! In general, the appearance of the secret mantra teachings of the Mahāyāna in
this world, the realm of Buddha Śākyamuni, represents the greatest kindness towards all
beings, it is true.
“Yet the essence of the wisdom body of all the deities of the secret mantras is you, Dorjé Tötreng
Tsal! Your wisdom speech embodies the pith instructions of the Mahāyāna, with which
you guide living beings. Your wisdom mind embraces a profound vision, as deep and as magnificent
as the sun, lighting up the entire sky.
“Wherever I may look, someone like me, Yeshé Tsogyal, will never find a  buddha greater than
you, Lotus-born, for you are the embodiment of all the sugatas in one. Because of this, please
grant me a prayer which is brief in its words and concise in its meaning, profound in
its truth and great in blessings, so that by simply praying to you, O Guru, your blessings
will rush in like clouds filling the sky.
“I request a prayer which has such power of blessing that even after you have returned to the
land of Orgyen, when we ordinary people in Tibet recite this prayer, in all your compassion
you will come from the realm of the ḍākinīs to Tibetans with devotion, wherever they may
be.”
He replied:
“Listen, Lady Tsogyal! Sentient beings in the three realms, driven by their destructive emotions,
are all overwhelmed by endless discursive thoughts, and are deluded by clinging to the
dualistic appearance of subject and object.
“All the buddhas of the dharmakāya have granted me their blessing, all the buddhas of the saṃbhogakāya
have empowered me, and all the nirmāṇakāya buddhas and bodhisattvas conferred and
decided I should come to this southern continent of Jambudvīpa. Especially, I have come
in order to spread the teachings of the buddhas here in the benighted land of Tibet, and
to lead beings into the resultant Dharma of the secret mantras. For this reason:
“In the heart of a lotus, on an island in the lake of jewels, I came, symbolizing the natural
self-manifesting of the nirmāṇakāya. If anyone who has faith, devotion and a connection
with me, prays with yearning and with real fervour, then the force of our special aspirations,
and the interdependence of cause and effect, will ensure that my compassion comes to
his or her help more quickly than that of any other buddha. So pray, Tsogyal, continuously
and with devotion.”
This is what he said.
At that moment, he gazed towards the south-west. He was adorned with various jewel and bone
ornaments, and playing his ḍamaru skull drum in his right hand, he placed his left hand on
Lady Tsogyal’s head, as he sang:
emaho, di né nyima lhonub tsam shé na
Emaho: O wonder! Yonder, in the south-west,
né chen dorjé den gyi nubjang tsam
To the north-west of the sacred Vajra seat,
ngayab ling tren zajé sinpö yul
Lies the continent of Ngayab Ling, land of the cannibal rakṣasas,
dü sum sangye nam kyi jinlab pé
Blessed by all the buddhas of past, present and future,
ling chok khyepar chen la solwa deb
To this sublime and special realm, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

hung, ngön gyi kalpa dangpo depé dü
Hūṃ! Long ago, in the very first aeon of the past,
matram rudra dralwé dzé gyé la
The eight objects from the liberation of Matram Rudra
sang ngak jönpé né gyé jin gyi lab
Blessed the eight sacred places where the secret mantras would come.
tsitta orgyen né su babpa lé
His heart, it fell in the land of Orgyen.
tendrel khyepar chen la solwa deb
To this special and auspicious circumstance, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

dorjé pakmö jin gyi labpé né
A sacred place, blessed by Vajravārāhī,
mamo khandro tamché duwé ling
The continent where mamos and ḍākinīs all convene,
sang ngak da yi rangdra di ri ri
Where, by themselves, the symbolic sounds of the secret mantras ring out;
né der chinpa tsam gyi changchub tob
To reach this realm is to attain enlightenment.
né chok khyepar chen la solwa deb
To  this supreme and sacred place we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

zangdok pal gyi riwo tsitté yib
The Copper-coloured Mountain of Glory is shaped as a heart,
tsawa lu yi gyalpö né su zuk
Its base deep down in the domain of the nāga king;
kepa lhün chak khandrö né na ji
Its slopes, resplendent and majestic, rising into the realm of the ḍākinīs;
tsemo tsangpé jikten nyekpa dra
Its soaring peak as high as the world of Brahmā:
ri gyal khyepar chen la solwa deb
To this special king of mountains, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

pal gyi riwo barwé tsemo na
On the shining crest of this awe-inspiring mountain,
sharchok shel la lhochok baidurya
Its eastern side of crystal, the south of lapis lazuli,
nubchok raga jangchok indre dok
The west of ruby, and the north of sapphire,
chinang mepar salwé shyalyé khang
Stands the celestial mansion, shimmering, and translucent from within and without,
podrang khyepar chen la solwa deb
To this exquisite palace, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

shyalyé chenpö chok shyi tsam gyé dang
Every side and face of this great mansion, in each direction,
tengok tamché rinpoche lé drub
Above and below, is made from jewels and precious substances.
khyam dang druché lobur rik shyi yang
Corridors, corners, and parapets—each shine
trinlé shyi yi khadok sosor sal
With the colours of the four buddha families and enlightened activities, white, yellow, red
and green:
lhündrub shyalyé khang la solwa deb
To this spontaneously perfect mansion, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tsikpa dönam pagu drawa dang
The walls and ledges, friezes and hanging garlands,
draché dayab rinchen na nga sal
Tasselled fringes, and rooftop parapets all gleam with gold, and silver, turquoise, coral and
pearl,
go shyi tabab chökhor gyen nam kün
The four doors, the porches, the wheel of Dharma, and all the ornaments
natsok rinpoche yi dzepar gyen
Stand out in beauty, set with every kind of jewel:
rinchen shyalyé khang la solwa deb
To this precious celestial palace, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

paksam shing dang dütsi chumik dang
Wish-fulfilling trees, bubbling springs of nectar, with
jatsön na ngé chinang trin tar tib
Rainbows of blue and white, yellow, red and green, gathering like clouds inside and all around,
metok pemé ö kyi barnang kheng
The atmosphere is bathed in light in the shape of lotus flowers,
né dé drenpa tsam gyi dechen tob
Simply to think of this place brings great bliss:
pema ö kyi shyalyé la solwa deb
To this heavenly palace of Lotus Light, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

shyalyé chenpo dé yi nang shé na
Within this measureless mansion,
rinchen zur gyé nyima dawé den
On an eight-cornered jewel throne, and sun and moon disc seat,
ma chak pema barwé dongpo la
On the shining, blossoming, lotus of non-attachment,
pemajungné deshek düpé ku
There you preside, Padmākara, you who embody all the sugatas:
rangjung trulpé ku la solwa deb
To this self-arising nirmāṇakāya emanation, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

shyi gyé wang drak dön la gongpé chir
So as to benefit beings by pacifying, enriching, magnetizing  and subjugating,
kudok chaktsen gyen nam ma ngé kyang
Your colour, attributes, and ornaments will change,
nyima tong gi ö lé zidang ché
Yet your brilliance remains, always brighter than a thousand suns,
ri gyal lhünpo bé kyang jiréché
Your majesty surpassing even Mount Meru.
yatsen trulpé ku la solwa deb
To the wondrous nirmāṇakāya emanation, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tuk kyi trulpé jikten khyabpar gyé
Emanations of your wisdom mind fan out through the whole world;
chen tsa nyida tabu khyil shying zik
Like the sun and moon, your eyes turn and gaze on all.
namkhé lok lé tukjé trinlé nyur
Your compassionate action is swifter than a flash of lighting in the sky,
gongpa zabmo namkhé long dang nyam
Your understanding as deep as the vast expanse of space:
tukjé khyepar chen la solwa deb
To your extraordinary compassion, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

dro la tsewé tab kyi dro dön dzé
With the skilful means born of your love for beings, you act always for their benefit;
shyal dzum dzepé dangden ya la la
From your smiling mouth, glowing in beauty,
druk tong dirwé sung gi dang dra ché
The sound of your voice, mightier than the roaring of a thousand dragons,
sang ngak zabmö chö dra di ri ri
Thunders out the sound of the profound secret mantra teachings,
tsangpé sung yang drok la solwa deb
To your speech, which has the melodious voice of Brahmā, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

tulku chenpö chok shyi tsam gyé na
In each of the eight directions around this great nirmāṇakāya buddha,
lokpé dragek dzipé den tengdu
Crushing underfoot malicious enemies and obstructing forces,
ku sung tuk dang yönten trinlé kyi
Rages the assembly of wrathful deities who subjugate negativity,
rik nga deshek düdul trowö tsok
The sugatas of the five families, of the wisdom body, speech, mind, qualities and activity:
drubchen kagyé kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
To the deities of the great Kagyé sādhanas, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

chok shyi pema dab shyi den tengdu
In the east, south, north and west, on four-petalled lotus blossoms,
rik shyi ging dang khandro dé shyi tsok
Arise the gings of the four families, together with the four classes of ḍākinīs;
tamché malü durtrö ché dangden
Every one of them wearing the grisly attributes of the charnel ground,
dzepé gyenden rolpé tab su shyuk
Along with beautiful ornaments, all assuming the postures of dance:
yeshe khandro yabyum la solwa deb
To the ḍākas and ḍākinīs of wisdom, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

shyalyé chenpö chok shyiwar khyam dang
In the four directions within the great celestial mansion,
druché lo bur rigdzin khandrö kheng
The courtyards, corners, and balconies are crowded with vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
lha dang lhamo mangpo trin tar tib
Countless gods and goddesses gather, swirling like clouds,
chi nang sangwé chöpa natsok bul
Lifting up offerings of every variety, outer, inner and secret:
mamo khandrö lhatsok la solwa deb
To the mamos, and ḍākinīs with their throngs of deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

rinchen shyalyé khang gi dönam la
All along the galleries of this great jewelled mansion,
chöpé lhamo chartrin tabur tib
Offering goddesses gather like clouds of rain,
döyön druk gi chöpé jikten kheng
Filling the whole world with offerings to delight the six senses.
kuntuzangpö chöpé deshek chö
To the sugatas, they make offerings as infinite as Samantabhadra’s:
yönten künjung gi lhatsok la solwa deb
To all these deities, the source of all good qualities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

shyalyé chenpö chok kyi go shyi na
In the east, south, west and north, at the four gates of the great mansion,
gyalchen dé shyi gowé kanyen dzé
Stand guard the four Great Kings, who carry out the commands entrusted to them,
lhasin dé gyé dren dang ponyar gyé
Despatching the eight classes of gods and demons as their servants and messengers,
dü dang mutek dultren shyindu dul
To grind demons and tīrthikas into dust.
chökyong sungmé lhatsok la solwa deb
To all of you Dharma protectors and guardians, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

hung, shyeng shik pemajungné khandrö tsok
Hūṃ! Rise up, Padmākara, with your throng of ḍākinīs!
gong shik chok chu dü sum deshek nam
Care for us, sugatas of all time and all directions.
jetsün chenpo pema tötreng tsal
Great and noble guide, Padma Tötreng Tsal,
rigdzin khandrö né né shek su sol
Come now from the realm of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs!

utra dzepé tortsuk shik sé shik
Your beautiful long tresses swept up and rustling;
rinchen gyencha mangpo si li li
Your jewels and ornaments all jingling;
durtrö rüpé gyencha trololo
Charnel ground bone ornaments rattling;
dra dang rolmo mangpo u ru ru
Everywhere music and cymbals rumbling;
yidam lhatsok hung dra di ri ri
Yidam deities thundering out the sound of ‘hūṃ!’;
khandro dé ngé gar jé shik sé shik
Ḍākinīs of the five classes gracefully swirling;
gingchen pawö drodung trab sé trab
Great gings in their warrior dance, stomping;
mamo khandro trin tar tib sé tib
Like clouds, mamos and ḍākinīs swarming;
chökyong dé gyé lejé khyuk sé khyuk
The eight classes of Dharma protectors and their agents striking;
shyub chen tong gi draké si li li
One thousand armoured soldiers clattering;
yé na pogyü tamché sha ra ra
To the right, all the male deities advancing;
yön na mogyü tamché sha ra ra
To the left, all the female deities advancing;
barnang tamché dar duk lhab sé lhab
Space is full of flags and umbrellas fluttering;
dri shyim pö kyi ngé dang tu lu lu
Fragrances of the sweetest incense wafting;
khandro sangwé da ké di ri ri
The ḍākinīs’ secret code language resounding;
ging chen pawö shuk lu kyu ru ru
The great gings’ warrior hymn whistling;
hung gi nang lu mangpo di ri ri
Everywhere, the yogic song of ‘hūṃ’ reverberating;
pé kyi da ké drakpo sang sé sang
Fierce and forceful, the symbolic syllable ‘phaṭ’ exploding.

dak dang dro druk semchen tamché la
Look on us all—sentient beings in the six realms—
tukjé zik la né dir shek su sol
With your compassion. And come now, to this place!
né dir tukjé gong té shek né kyang
Now you have embraced us in your compassion, now you have come to this place,
dak gi changchub nyingpo matob bar
Until we have realized the essence of enlightenment,
gek dang lokdren barché dulwa dang
Subjugate all obstructing forces, all obstacles and those who lead us astray!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsal du sol
Grant us the siddhis, ordinary and supreme!
khorwa dukngal gyi gyatso lé dral du sol
And release us from samsara’s ocean of suffering—this we pray!
“Tsogyal, pray like this; pray with devotion! For me, Padmākara, there is nothing apart from
benefiting beings. Through the force of the samaya link, I shall return to the land of Tibet.
To those who have faith, I shall actually grant prophecies directly.”
The Guru spoke again:
“As regards this prayer, first of all when you recount its story, you will be filled with inspiration.
When you see its precious qualities, deep faith will be born within you. When that
faith becomes unshakeable trust and devotion, then my blessing will enter and transform
you. When your mind is free of all doubts, whatever you wish can be achieved.”

Version: 1.3-20220110