The Prayer in Seven Chapters to Padmākara, the Second Buddha
The terma of Tulku Zangpo Drakpa and Rigdzin Gödem Chen
Homage to the Guru!
It was in the twelfth month of the male Fire Horse year (766), when a huge tsok feast was offered
at Glorious Samyé monastery. Five disciples—the bhikṣu Namkhé Nyingpo, the king Trisong
Detsen, the ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal, Nanam Dorjé Dudjom, and the prince Mutri Tsenpo—performed
prostrations and circumambulated the great lotus-born master Padmasambhava, and offered
him a maṇḍala of jewels. They then made this request:
“O great master! In every one of the teachings of the secret mantras you have given, you have
stated that keeping the samaya vows is of vital importance. And among these vows, you have
said that to pray to the master is the most important of all. Since that is the case, both
for ourselves and for future generations, we request you, who are a buddha: please teach
us a prayer that we can say in the morning and the evening, few in words and concise in
meaning, a prayer that will inspire vivid faith and delight, infuse us with a powerful blessing,
and, when ordinary people, not gifted with great intelligence, use its words as an
urgent plea, will invoke the wisdom mind of the deities of the Secret Mantrayāna, and cause
the blessing of you, the guru, to enter into us.”
The great master replied:
“Listen, you fortunate ones of Tibet! How rare it is for this Secret Mantrayāna even to appear
at all! When the previous buddha, the Great Guardian of Light, turned the wheel of Dharma,
he did not teach this secret mantra Vajrayāna. Eight hundred and forty million buddhas
have not taught it, and nor will the buddhas of the future teach it. Why not? Because those
who live at that time are not suitable to receive it. Long ago, during the very first kalpa,
called ‘The Kalpa of the Complete Array’, in the teaching of a buddha called Once-Come-King,
the secret mantra teachings were widely proclaimed. Now too, the secret mantras have
appeared in the teaching of the present buddha, ‘the sage of the Śākyas’, Śākyamuni. Ten
million kalpas from now, in a kalpa called 'Array of Flowers', the buddha Mañjuśrī will
come, and just like me, he will reveal the secret mantras on a vast scale.  The reason that
these teachings appear in these three kalpas alone is because the beings alive then are
suitable recipients. At no other time apart from these three kalpas will the secret mantra
teachings appear.
“Therefore, now that this teaching is present, you who have obtained a free and well-favoured
human body and who have embarked on the practice of the secret mantras, must not fall under
the influence of laziness and apathy. Now you have to possess, in their entirety, the
‘four requirements’ for practising the secret mantras. If they are not complete, the samaya
will be impaired, and you will definitely wander in samsara, and you will definitely fall
into lower rebirths. Why is this? Because not one of the buddhas of past, present and future
teach that enlightenment can be realized by indulging in destructive emotions just as
they are, unchanged.
“The four requirements are these:
—First, you require the instruction for cutting forcefully through the entanglements and attachment
that make you slip into ordinary ways of body, speech and mind.
—Second, when the five poisons of the destructive emotions are extremely turbulent, you require
the instruction on knowing how these five poisons can be liberated in themselves.
—Third, when you fall under the influence of busyness and distraction, you require the instruction
on recognizing expectation and fear as the obstacles.
—Fourth, to keep the samaya vows pure, you require the key instruction that is like an archer
steadily drawing his bow.
“Furthermore, the Secret Mantrayāna is like the uḍumbara flower, which hardly ever appears,
and even when it does, it does not last long. This is because beings are not suitable recipients
for these teachings.
“Now, you all, with the king at your head, listen well! Once you have obtained a free and well-favoured
human body during a time when the Buddha’s teaching flourishes, and once you have
set out on the path of the secret mantras, if you wish to attain enlightenment in this
life, you must keep the root and branch samayas pure. This is absolutely vital. If not, you
would be like a person who goes looking for a healing medicine, and finds instead a deadly
poison, lethal to the touch. To keep the samaya, you need devotion, diligence and discriminating
awareness, all three. Without devotion, you are not a suitable candidate for the
Secret Mantrayāna. Without exertion, you will slide back into ordinary experience, a lazy,
indolent person. Without discriminating awareness, you will not know how to distinguish
between the profound view and action of the Secret Mantrayāna.
“The secret mantra teachings have come for the benefit of those beings who have devotion and
faith. So recognize this master who teaches you the secret mantras as actually the Buddha
in person, and recite this prayer:
Chapter One
The Prayer to the Three Kāya Guru
emaho, trödral chö kyi ying kyi shyingkham su
Emaho: O wonder! In the pure realm of the dharmadhātu, of natural simplicity,
chönyi dü sum kye gak mepé ngang
Within the intrinsic nature of reality, forever unborn, unceasing throughout the whole of time,
jadral lhün dzok dewa chenpö ku
You dwell, as the body of great bliss, free from activity, spontaneously perfect,
namkha shyindu tukjé chokri mé
Your compassion impartial and unbiased, like the sky:
lama chö kyi ku la solwa deb
Dharmakāya Lama, to you we pray!
orgyen pema jungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

dechen lhün gyi drubpé shyingkham su
In the pure realm of Great Bliss, spontaneously present,
ku sung tuk dang yönten trinlé kyi
Dwells the embodiment of all sugatas, with the five wisdoms
yeshe ngaden dewar shekpé ku
Of body, speech, mind, qualities, and enlightened action,
tukjé jedrak natsok sosor tön
Appearing to different beings in all kinds of compassionate forms,
lama longchö dzok ku la solwa deb
Saṃbhogakāya Lama, to you we pray!
orgyen pema jungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

mijé jikten dakpé shyingkham su
Into this pure realm of our world of Endurance,
tukjé chenpö drowé dön la jön
Out of your great compassion, you have come, to bring benefit to beings,
gang la gang dul tab kyi dro dön dzé
Skilfully helping them by taming each according to their needs,
dé dang majön danta dü sum gyi
Throughout the whole span of past, future, and present,
lama trulpé ku la solwa deb
Nirmāṇakāya Lama, to you we pray!
orgyen pema jungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!
The Lineage Prayer
chöku kuntuzangpo la solwa deb
We pray to the dharmakāya, Samantabhadra,
longku gyalwa rik nga la solwa deb
We pray to the saṃbhogakāya buddhas of the five families,
tulku rik sum gönpo la solwa deb
We pray to the nirmāṇakāya lords Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara and Vajrapāṇi,
yangtrul garab dorjé la solwa deb
We pray to their emanation Garab Dorjé,
lobpön jampal shenyen la solwa deb
We pray to the master Mañjuśrīmitra,
rigdzin shri singha la solwa deb
We pray to the vidyādhara Śrī Siṃha,
penchen bimamitra la solwa deb
We pray to the great scholar Vimalamitra,
gyalsé pema jungné la solwa deb
We pray to the bodhisattva Padmasambhava,
chögyal trisong detsen la solwa deb
We pray to the Dharma King Trisong Detsen,
khandro yeshe tsogyal la solwa deb
We pray to the ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal,
gelong namkhé nyingpo la solwa deb
We pray to the bhikṣu Namkhé Nyingpo,
nanam dorjé düjom la solwa deb
We pray to Nanam Dorjé Dudjom,
lhasé mutri tsenpo la solwa deb
We pray to prince Mutri Tsenpo,
tulku zangpo drakpa la solwa deb
We pray to tulku Zangpo Dragpa,
rikdzin ngödrub gyaltsen la solwa deb
We pray to the vidyādhara Ngödrub Gyaltsen,
künpang dönyö gyaltsen la solwa deb
We pray to the renunciate Dönyö Gyaltsen,
gyüdzin sönam chokzang la solwa deb
We pray to the lineage holder Sönam Chokzang,
drubchen tangtong gyalpo la solwa deb
We pray to the great siddha Tangtong Gyalpo,
tsungmé ngödrub palden la solwa deb
We pray to the incomparable Ngödrub Palden,
drinchen künga zangpo la solwa deb
We pray to the compassionate Kunga Zangpo,
mingyur letro lingpa la solwa deb
We pray to Mingyur Letro Lingpa,
gyalwang rinchen püntsok la solwa deb
We pray to Gyalwang Rinchen Phuntsok,
tulku namkha gyajin la solwa deb
We pray to tulku Namkha Gyajin,
khedrub dongak tendzin la solwa deb
We pray to the learned siddha Dongak Tendzin,
rigdzin trinlé lhündrub la solwa deb
We pray to the vidyādhara Trinlé Lhundrup,
chögyal terdak lingpa la solwa deb
We pray to the king of Dharma, Terdak Lingpa,
düsum tsagyü lama la solwa deb
We pray to all the root and lineage masters of past, present and future,
drinchen tsawé lama la solwa deb
We pray to our root lama, in all his kindness and compassion,
yidam drubchen kagyé la solwa deb
We pray to the yidam deities of the great Kagyé sādhanas,
mamo khandrö lhatsok la solwa deb
We pray to the throngs of mamos and ḍākinīs,
chökyong magön chamdral la solwa deb
We pray to the Dharma protectors Ekajaṭī, Mahākāla, Za and Dorjé Lekpa.

di chi bardo sum du jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings in this life, the next and the bardo state,
khorwa dukngal gyi gyatso lé dral du sol
Release us from samsara’s ocean of suffering,
kyemé nyingpo lönpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings to arrive at our unborn, enlightened nature,
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsal du sol
And grant us the siddhis, ordinary and supreme!
The Guru concluded: “Recite this prayer continuously, without any interruption.”