Maitreya's Aspiration
from the Words of the Buddha

gyagar ké du arya maitri pranidhana radza
In the language of India: ārya-maitrī-praṇidhānarāja
böké du pakpa jampé mönlam gyi gyalpo
In the language of Tibet: pakpa champé mönlam gyi gyalpo
In the English language: The Noble Maitreya’s King of Aspirations

sangye dang changchub sempa tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to all buddhas and bodhisattvas!
Ānanda, in the past, when the bodhisattva mahāsattva Maitreya was engaged in the bodhisattva
practices, he would drape his upper robes over one shoulder, bend his right knee to the ground,
and join his palms together, three times a day and three times a night. He would then
concentrate on all the buddhas and make the following aspiration:1
sangye kün la chaktsal lo
Homage to all buddhas!
drangsong lha mik denpa yi
Homage to the bodhisattvas
changchub sempa nam dang yang
Who possess the divine vision of seers,
nyentö nam la chaktsal lo
And homage to the hearers as well.

ngendro lé ni dok gyi ching
Homage to bodhicitta, the heart of awakening,
tori lam ni rab tön la
That keeps the lower realms at bay,
gashi mepar dren gyipa
That shows us the way to the higher realms,
changchub sem la chaktsal lo
And leads us to a state beyond ageing and death.

sem kyi wang du gyurpé na
I go before the awakened ones
dak gi dikpa chigyi pa
To confess any and all misdeeds
sangye chen ngar chi né su
That I may have committed
dak gi dedak shakpar gyi
While under the sway of mind.

ganglé nampa sum gang gi
May all merit accrued
sönam tsok ni kyepa dé
Through the three kinds of actions
dak gi künkhyen sabön té
Become a seed for my omniscience
dak gi changchub mizé shok
And inexhaustible awakening.

chok chu dak gi shyingkham su
The buddhas are aware and rejoice in any offering
sangye chöpa gang jungwa
Made to the awakened ones
sangye khyenpé yirangwa
Throughout the buddhafields of the ten directions,
dela dak ni yi rang ngo
And so do I too rejoice.

dikpa tamché shakpar gyi
I hereby confess all negative actions.
sönam kün la yi rang ngo
I hereby rejoice in everything meritorious.
sangye kün la chaktsal la
I hereby pay homage to all buddhas.
dak ni yeshe chok tob shok
May I attain the supreme wisdom state.

chok chu dak gi chok nam na
I exhort each and every bodhisattva
sa chu dak la nepa yi
Dwelling in the ten directions
changchub sempa changchub chok
And upon the ten bodhisattva levels
tsanggya gyipar kulma deb
To awaken now to supreme enlightenment.

changchub dampar sangyé shing
And, as they awaken to sublime enlightenment,
dé dang chepé dü tul né
May they turn the wheel of Dharma
sokchak kün la men ledu
So as to tame the demons and all their hordes,
chö kyi khorlo kor gyur chik
And bring benefit to every living being.

chö nga chenpö dra yi ni
May the beat of the great drum of Dharma
dukngal semchen tar gyi shok
Free beings from their suffering.
kalpa jewa samyé su
For unimaginable billions of eons,
chö tön dzé ching shyuk gyur chik
May the awakened ones teach Dharma and remain.

döpé dam du jing gyur ching
I beg you, best of humans,
sepé sebü dam chingpa
Look upon us drowning in the mud of desires,
chingwa kün gyi ching dak la
Bound by the ropes of craving,
kang nyi chok nam zik su sol
And in other ways absolutely trapped.

sem kyi drimar gyurpa la
May the buddhas not level criticism
sangye nam ni mö mi dzé
Against those of impure minds.
semchen nam la jam tukden
Instead, may they give love to beings
sipé tso lé drolwar shok
And free them from the ocean of existence!

dzokpé sangye gang shyuk dang
May I train in the likeness
gangdak dé dang majönpa
Of the perfectly awakened buddhas
dedak jesu dak lob ching
Of the present, past, and future,
changchub chepa chö gyur chik
And uphold the bodhisattva conduct.

parol chin druk dzok gyi né
May I bring to completion the six perfections
dro druk semchen tar gyi shok
And lead, to the end, the six classes of beings.
ngönshé drukpo ngön gyi né
May I manifest at last the six super-knowledges
lamé changchub rek gyur chik
And reach the unsurpassed state of awakening.

makyepa dang minjung dang
May I realize the truth of emptiness
rangshyin ma chi né ma chi
In which all is birthless and non-arising,
namrik ma chi ngö ma chi
Without intrinsic nature, without location,
tongpé chö ni tokpar shok
With neither mental process nor substance.

sangye drangsong chenpo tar
Just like the great sage, the Buddha himself,
semchen ma chi sok ma chi
May I realize the truth of selflessness
gangzak ma chi so ma chi
In which beings do not exist, nor any living things,
dak machipé chö tok shok
Nor an individual, nor any kind of person.

dakdzin dakgir dzinpa yi
May I practice generosity free from stinginess
ngöpo kün la mi nepar
Without entertaining any notion of substantiality,
semchen kün la pen ledu
Nor any belief in the self nor egoistical clinging,
serna ma chi jin tong shok
So that the benefit may reach all beings.

ngöpo ngöpor machipé
Since material things do not exist concretely,
dak gi longchö lhündrub shok
May all my needs be spontaneously met.
ngöpo tamché nam jikpé
Since all material things are subject to decay,
jinpé parol chin dzok shok
May I master the perfection of generosity.

trim kyi tsultrim kyönmé ching
With discipline completely flawless,
tsultrim nampar dak dangden
Discipline that is perfectly pure,
lomsem mepé tsultrim kyi
And discipline devoid of arrogance,
tsultrim parol chin dzok shok
May I master the perfection of discipline.

sa am yangna chu am mé
With absence of anger––in other words, with patience,
lung gi kham tar mi né shing
Akin to how the earth, water, and fire elements,
zöpa am trowa ma chipar
And the wind element as well, dwell not anywhere,
zöpé parol chin dzok shok
May I complete the perfection of patience.

tsöndrü tsampé tsöndrü kyi
With persistent application of diligence
ten tro lelo ma chi shing
May I be ever joyful and free from laziness,
tob dang denpé lü sem kyi
And with strength in both body and mind
tsöndrü parol chin dzok shok
May I complete the perfection of diligence.

gyuma tabü tingdzin dang
With illusion-like meditative concentration,
pawar drowé tingdzin dang
And bravery-inspiring meditative concentration,
dorjé tabü tingdzin gyi
And vajra-like meditative concentration,
samten parol chin dzok shok
May I master the perfection of meditation.

nampar tarpé go sum dang
Acting with the three gates of liberation,
dü sum nyampa nyi dang yang
With the equality of the three times,
rik sam ngönsum gyipa yi
And the threefold knowledge,
sherab parol chin dzok shok
May I master the perfection of wisdom.

sangye kün gyi ngakpa dang
May I be praised by all buddhas
ö dang ziji barwa dang
As I beam with light and splendour,
changchub sempé tsöndrü kyi
And with the diligence of a bodhisattva
dak gi sampa dzok gyur chik
May all my aims be accomplished.

detar chepa chö jé ching
As I engage in this very conduct,
jampa drak dang denpa yi
May I, the one known as Maitreya,
parol chin druk dzok gyi né
Bring to completion the six perfections
sa chupo la rabtu né
And reach the ten bodhisattva levels.
Additionally:2
di né shi pö gyur ma tak
At the very moment I pass away,
ganden kyé né yiga bar
May I joyfully take rebirth in Tuṣita Heaven
nyurdu jam gön nyé jé né
And, swiftly delighting the Lord Maitreya,
changchub lungten tobpar shok
Receive his prophecy of my awakening.

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Lowell Cook, ed. Libby Hogg), 2020.
↑ In this paragraph the Buddha Śākyamuni addresses his foremost disciple Ānanda, and recounts
the following aspiration made by the Buddha Maitreya, when he was on the bodhisattva path.↑
The following four lines are commonly added to the end of Maitreya’s aspiration.