The Sage's Powerful Words of Truth
A Prayer for the Spread of the Omniscient Buddha's Teachings
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Homage to the guru and all the buddhas and bodhisattvas!
kalzang sangye tong lé khyepardu
Among the thousand buddhas of this fortunate age,
ngotsar u dum wa ra tar pak shing
You are the most wondrous and majestic, as rare as an uḍumbara flower,
tsöpé dü dir shyingkham yong zungwa
You who care for our world during this age of conflict,
tub chok dön kün drub la chaktsal lo
Mighty sage, Siddhārtha, to you I pay homage!

chok chü sangye changsem nyenrang dang
All you buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas in all directions,
jamyang chenzik chak na dorjé dzin
Great bodhisattvas, Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara,
jampa lasok changchub sempa dang
Vajrapāṇi, Maitreya and the rest,
neten chudruk té rab chenpo dün
Together with the sixteen sthaviras and seven great patriarchs,1
dzamling gyen chok mejung lobpön ché
Six ornaments2 and two supreme ones3 of this world, the two marvellous ācāryas,4
naljor wangchuk gyechu tsa shyi sok
Eighty-four mahāsiddhas, and the rest,
khyepar kadrin nyammé pema jung
And especially, the Lotus-born Guru, whose kindness is beyond compare,
shyitso trisong vairo atisha
Śāntarakṣita, Tri Songdetsen, Vairotsana and Atiśa,
gongma nam nga mar mi dakpo jé
Five Sakya Patriarchs,5 Marpa, Milarepa and Gampopa,
jamyang lama lasok gya bö kyi
Lama Tsongkhapa, Mañjughoṣa in person, and all the rest,
khé dang drubpé rigdzin tsok nam dang
All you great learned and accomplished vidyādharas of India and Tibet,
yidam shyitro khandro chökyong sok
And all you peaceful and wrathful yidam deities, ḍākinīs and dharmapālas—
tukdam né né kul lo tukjé gong
We invoke you! Turn your wisdom minds towards us, and look upon us with compassion!

tubten dulwa dodé ngönpa dang
All the teachings of the Buddha—Vinaya, Sūtra, Abhidharma,
sang ngak gyüdé chenpo nampa shyi
The four classes of tantra within the Secret Mantra,
gangjong shé gyü ka chen chupo dang
The teachings of the ten great pillars of the study lineage6 in the Land of Snows,
drubgyü shingta ché gyé lasokpa
And the eight great chariots of the practice lineage,7
tubten do dang ngak kyi tsul tadak
All the sūtra and mantra traditions of the Buddha’s teachings—
shintu nyampar gyurpa di la zik
Look now and see the extent to which they have all declined!

ngejung tsultrim ngurmik gyaltsen tok
The saffron-robed saṅgha, upholders of the victory banner of discipline and renunciation,
shyenpen zolmé changchub sempa dang
Bodhisattvas who, without pretense or deception, genuinely seek to benefit others,
damtsik den shying kyedzok rik ngak chang
And holders of awareness mantras who maintain the commitments, and practise generation and completion—
tsennyi denpa rimö marmé tar
Look how these practitioners have been reduced to pale imitations of the real thing, like a
mere drawing of a butter lamp!
gyurpa di la yeshe chenden nam
Look upon us now with your eyes of wisdom, and care for us in your compassion, we pray!
ngepar gong la tukjé kyab tu sol
Beings of this evil age with its five degenerations,
dü ngen nyikma nga dö semchen nam
Are caught in the bonds of turbulent and destructive emotions, their cravings and desires.
nyönmong tob drak dö sé chingwé ching
The followers of the teachings fight amongst themselves,
ten la shyuk nam trakdok lungmar gyi
Spurred on by the fierce winds of jealousy,
tenpa nang truk tawé nyikma gyé
And degenerate views are widespread.
tsöpachen du gyurpé ten sel gyi
Through these defilements, brought about by conflicts within the tradition,
drib kyi chökyong karchok sungma yel
The Dharma protectors, guardians of all that is positive, have turned away from us,
gyalkham küntu lhamin lalö kheng
While warrior-like asuras and barbarians fill the world—
di dang didrar gyurpé tenpa nub
In these and other ways, the teachings have declined.

kyema kyi hü gönpo tukjé chen
Kyema Kyihü! O compassionate protectors!
khyö nam tukdam tutsal tob kyé la
Increase the power and strength of your sacred commitments!
dü ngen kyowé shyumpa chi la nga
Why would you be discouraged by the sadness of these evil times?
tob chü wangchuk wang chu ngawé na
Since you are masters of the ten strengths and possessors of the ten powers,
tenpa nyampa didak sorchü ching
You must surely heal and restore the teachings.
khé tsün drubtob tsemar gyurpa ni
Send us genuine teachers who are learned, disciplined and accomplished,
mangpor trul né tenpa sowar dzö
To breathe fresh life into the Buddhadharma!

pak bö nyi su dzokden chima yi
In both India and Tibet, may the precious lamps of joyful celebration,
gatön rinchen drönmé barwa dang
Be set ablaze, to usher in another golden age,
gyalten rimé petsal dar la bab
And may the non-sectarian, lotus-like teachings of the Buddha, flourish and blossom.

dé la khuwé tsok kyi sem gyur shying
May the minds of those who harbour ill-will towards the teachings be changed,
kün kyang ten la dün dang gé chur chö
And filled with inspiration to practise the ten virtuous actions.
tendzin gendün dé yi dzamling khyab
May the saṅgha, the holders of the teachings, fill this world of ours,
shé dang drubpa dar shying gyepar shok
And study and practice increase and spread.

tsuklakhang nam chöpé trin tsok gyé
May vast clouds of offerings fill all monasteries and temples,
dampé chö kyi nga chen rabtu drok
And the great drum of the Dharma resound far and wide,
mutek langpö lepa gem jé ching
Annihilating the deluded arguments of the tīrthikas,
tubten chok lé nampar gyal gyur chik
And sounding the victory of the Buddhadharma in all directions.

tendzin kyé nam shyabpé tenpa dang
May the lives of all the holders of the teachings be secure,
tenpé jindak tsé dang sönam pel
And may the lives and merits of benefactors increase,
ten la nö nam ming gi lhakmar gyur
May even the names of those who would harm the teachings disappear,
tenpé gyaltsen chok chur dreng gyur chik
And may the victory banner of the teachings be raised in all directions!

Chökyi Lodrö wrote down whatever came to mind at the foot of the bodhi tree in Vajrāsana (Bodhgayā)
in the noble land of India. May these words be blessed so that they all come true.
Sarva maṅgalaṃ!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2007. Many thanks to Tulku Thondup Rinpoche for his kind clarifications.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "kun mkhyen thub pa'i bstan pa rgyas pa'i smon lam drang
srong lha yi bden tshig" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir:
Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 249–251
↑ Mahākāśyapa, Ānanda, Śāṇavāsika, Upagupta, Dhītika, Kṛṣṇa, and Sudarśana.↑ Six great commentators
on the Buddha’s teachings: Nāgārjuna, Āryadeva, Asaṅga, Vasubandhu, Dignāga and Dharmakīrti.↑
Guṇaprabha and Śākyaprabha, who were masters of the Vinaya teachings.↑ Śāntideva
and Candragomin.↑ Sachen Kunga Nyingpo, Sonam Tsemo, Jetsün Drakpa Gyaltsen, Sakya Paṇḍita
and Chögyal Pakpa.↑ Thönmi Sambhota, Vairotsana, Kawa Paltsek, Chokru Lu’i Gyaltsen, Shyang
Yeshe Dé, Dromtön Gyalwa Jungné, Rinchen Zangpo, Ngok Lotsāwa Loden Sherab, Sakya Paṇḍita
and Gö Khukpa Lhetsé.↑ Ngagyur Nyingma, Kadam, Lamdré, Marpa Kagyü, Shangpa Kagyü, Shyijé
and Chö, Jordruk (Vajra Yoga) and Orgyen Nyendrup (Accomplishment of the Three Vajras).