The Sūtra of the Heart of Transcendent Wisdom
from the Words of the Buddha

In Praise of Prajñāpāramitā
ma sam jö mé sherab parol chin
Beyond words, beyond thought, beyond description, Prajñāpāramitā
makyé mingak namkhé ngowo nyi
Unborn, unceasing, the very essence of space
soso rangrig yeshe chöyulwa
Yet it can be experienced as the wisdom of our own rigpa:
dü sum gyalwé yum la chaktsal lo
Homage to the mother of the buddhas of past, present and future!
The Heart Sūtra
gyagar ké du
In the language of India:
bhagavati prajnaparamita hridaya
Bhagavatī prajñāpāramitā hṛdaya
böké du
In the language of Tibet:
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chinpé nyingpo
Chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chinpé nyingpo

In the English language: The Blessed Mother, the Heart of the Transcendent Perfection of Wisdom
bampo chik go
In a single segment.
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chinpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Bhagavatī Prajñāpāramitā!

diké dak gi töpa dü chik na
Thus have I heard:
chomdendé gyalpö khab jagö pungpö ri la gelong gi gendün chenpo dang
At one time the Blessed One was dwelling in Rājgṛha at Vulture Peak mountain, together with
a great community of
changchub sempé gendün chenpo dang tab chik tu shyuk té
monks and a great community of bodhisattvas.
dé tsé chomdendé zabmo nangwa shyejawa chö kyi namdrang kyi ting ngé dzin la nyompar shyuk so
At that time, the Blessed One entered an absorption on categories of phenomena called ‘perception
of the profound’.
yang dé tsé changchub sempa sempa chenpo pakpa chenrezik wangchuk sherab kyi parol tu chinpa
zabmo chöpa nyi la nampar ta shying
At the same time, noble Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva and great being, beheld the practice
of the profound perfection of wisdom,
pungpo ngapo dedak la yang rangshyin gyi tongpar nampar ta o
And saw that the five aggregates are empty of nature.
dené sangye kyi tü
Then, through the Buddha's power,
tsé dang denpa sharibü changchub sempa sempa chenpo pakpa chenrezik wangchuk la diké ché mé
so
Venerable Śāriputra said to noble Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva and great being:
rik kyi bu gang lala sherab kyi parol tu chinpa zabmo chöpa chepar döpa dé jitar labpar ja
“How should a child of noble family who wishes to practise the profound perfection of wisdom
train?”
deké ché mepa dang | changchub sempa sempa chenpo pakpa chenrezik wangchuk gi tsé dang denpa
shara datibu la diké ché mé so
This is what he said, and the noble Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva and great being, replied
to venerable Śāriputra as follows:
sharibu rik kyi bu am rik kyi bumo gang lala sherab kyi parol tu chinpa zabmo chöpa chepar döpa
dé ditar nampar tawar ja té
“O Śāriputra, a son of noble family or daughter of noble family who wishes to practise the profound
perfection of wisdom should regard things in this way:
pungpo ngapo dedak kyang rangshyin gyi tongpar nampar yangdakpar jesu ta o
They should see the five aggregates to be empty of nature.
zuk tongpa o | tongpanyi kyang zuk so
Form is empty; emptiness is form;
zuk lé tongpanyi shyen mayin no
Emptiness is not other than form;
tongpanyi lé kyang zuk shyen mayin no
Form is not other than emptiness.
deshyindu tsorwa dang | dushé dang
In the same way, sensation, recognition,
dujé dang | nampar shepa nam tongpa o
Conditioning factors and consciousness are emptiness.
sharibu detawé na chö tamché tongpanyi dé
Therefore, Śāriputra, all dharmas are emptiness.
tsennyi mepa | makyepa | magakpa
They are without characteristics; they are unarisen and unceasing;
drima mepa | drima dang dralwa mepa
They are not tainted and not untainted;
driwa mepa | gangwa mepa o
They are not deficient and not complete.
sharibu detawé na tongpanyi la zukmé
Therefore, Śāriputra, in emptiness, there is no form,
tsorwa mé | dushé mé | dujé nam mé | nampar shepa mé
No sensation, no recognition, no conditioning factors, no consciousness;
mik mé | nawa mé | na mé | che mé | lü mé | yi mé
No eye, no ear, no nose, no tongue, no body, no mind;
zuk mé | dra mé | dri mé | ro mé | rekja mé | chö mé do
No visible form, no sound, no odour, no taste, no texture, and no mental objects;
mik gi kham mepa né yi kyi kham mé
There is no eye element up to no mind element;
yi kyi nampar shepé kham kyi bardu yang mé do
And as far as no mental consciousness element;
marikpa mé | marikpa zepa mepa né gashi mé
There is no ignorance, no extinction of ignorance up to no old age and death,
gashi zepé bardu yang mé do
No extinction of old age and death;
dukngalwa dang | künjungwa dang
No suffering, no origin,
gokpa dang | lam mé | yeshe mé | tobpa mé
No cessation, no path, no wisdom, no attainment,
matobpa yang mé do
And no non-attainment.
sharibu detawé na changchub sempa nam tobpa mepé chir
Therefore, Śāriputra, since bodhisattvas have no attainment,
sherab kyi parol tu chinpa la ten ching né té
They rely on and abide by the perfection of wisdom.
sem la dribpa mepé trakpa mé dé
Since their minds are unobscured, they have no fear.
chin chi lok lé shintu dé né nya ngen lé depé tarchin to
They completely transcend error and reach the ultimate nirvāṇa.
dü sum du nampar shyukpé sangye tamché kyang sherab kyi parol tu chinpa la ten né
All the buddhas throughout the three times
lana mepa yangdakpar dzokpé changchub tu ngönpar dzokpar sangye so
Fully awaken to unsurpassable, true, complete enlightenment by means of the perfection of wisdom.
detawé na sherab kyi parol tu chinpé ngak
Therefore, the mantra of the perfection of wisdom—
rigpa chenpö ngak | lana mepé ngak
The mantra of great insight, the unsurpassed mantra,
minyampa dang nyampé ngak | dukngal tamché rabtu shyiwar jepé ngak
The mantra that equals the unequalled, the mantra that pacifies all suffering—
midzünpé na denpar shepar ja té
Is not false and should be understood as true.
sherab kyi parol tu chinpé ngak mepa
The mantra of the perfection of wisdom is proclaimed as follows:
teyata | om gaté gaté para gaté | para samgaté | bodhi soha
tadyathā | oṃ gate gate pāragate | pārasaṃgate | bodhi svāhā
sharibu changchub sempa sempa chenpö detar sherab kyi parol tu chinpa zabmo la labpar ja o
Śāriputra, a bodhisattva and great being should train in the profound perfection of wisdom in
this way.”
dené chomdendé ting ngé dzin dé lé shyeng té
Thereupon, the Blessed One arose from that absorption
changchub sempa sempa chenpo pakpa chenrezik wangchuk la lek so shyejawa jin né
And commended Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva and great being:
lek so lek so | rik kyi bu de deshyin no | rik kyi bu de deshyin té
“Excellent, excellent, O son of noble family, that is how it is. That is just how it is.
jitar khyö kyi tenpa deshyindu sherab kyi parol tu chinpa zabmo la chepar ja té
One should practise the profound perfection of wisdom just as you have taught
deshyin shekpa nam kyang jesu yi rang ngo
And then even the tathāgatas will rejoice.”
chomdendé kyi deké ché katsal né
When the Blessed One had said this,
tsé dang denpa sharibu dang
Venerable Śāriputra, and
changchub sempa sempa chenpo pakpa chenrezik wangchuk dang
Noble Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva and great being,
tamché dang denpé khor dedak dang | lha dang | mi dang
Together with the whole assembly and the world of gods, human beings,
lha mayin dang | drizar chepé jikten yi rang té
Asuras and gandharvas rejoiced and praised
chomdendé kyi sungpa la ngönpar tö do
The speech of the Blessed One.
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chinpé nyingpo shyejawa tekpa chenpö do dzok so
Thus concludes the Mahāyāna Sūtra of the Blessed Mother, the Heart of the Transcendent Perfection
of Wisdom.
The Prajñāpāramitā Mantra
teyata | om gaté gaté para gaté | para samgaté | bodhi soha
tadyathā | oṃ gate gate pāragate | pārasaṃgate | bodhi svāhā
Dokpa—Averting Obstacles through the Heart Sūtra
If you wish to make a practice of the sūtra then consider that the Tathāgata appears in the
space before you, adopting the mudrā of subjugating Māra and surrounded by the retinue from
the saṅgha of the greater and lesser vehicles, including both Avalokiteśvara and Śāriputra
in dialogue. And, while contemplating the meaning of emptiness, recite the profound sūtra
as many times as you can, up to seven times in total, and recite the vidyā mantra too,
as many times as possible. Then, at the end, perform the following practice of averting demonic
forces:
namo, lama la chaktsal lo
Namo! Homage to the Guru!
sangye la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Buddha!
chö la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Dharma!
gendün la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Saṅgha!
yum chenmo sherab kyi parol tu chinpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Great Mother, Prajñāpāramitā!
khyé nam la chaktsalwé tu dang nüpa la ten né
Through the power and strength of paying homage to you,
dakchak gi tsik di drubpar gyur chik
May these words of ours come true!
jitar ngön lhé wangpo gyajin gyi yum chenmo sherab kyi parol tu chinpé dön zabmo yi la sam shying
tsik khatön du jepé tu dang nüpa la ten né
Just as, long ago, the king of the gods Indra, by the power and strength of contemplating the
profound meaning of the perfection of wisdom, the Great Mother, and reciting its words,
dü dikchen lasokpa chir dokpa deshyindu dak gi kyang yum chenmo sherab kyi parol tu chinpé dön
zabmo yi la sam shying tsik khatön du jepé tu dang nüpa la ten né
Was able to avert the demonic forces of negativity, so in the very same way, may we too, through
the power and strength of contemplating the profound meaning of the Perfection of Wisdom,
the Great Mother, and reciting its words,
dak khor dang chepé dampé chö drubpé pangja mitünpé chok tamché chir dokpar gyur chik
Avert all the negative influences which prevent us and those around us from accomplishing the
Noble Dharma!
mepar gyur chik
May they be annihilated!
shyiwar gyur chik
May they be rendered harmless!
rabtu shyiwar gyur chik
May they be completely pacified!
3 times
Conclusion
gang gi ten ching drelwar jung
Everything that arises interdependently
gakpa mepa kyé mepa
Is unceasing and unborn,
chepa mepa tak mepa
Neither non-existent nor everlasting,
ongwa mepa dro mepa
Neither coming nor going,
tadé dön min dön chik min
Neither multiple nor single.
tröpa nyershyi shyi tönpa
To this teaching that pacifies all concepts and duality,
dzokpé sangye ma nam kyi
The most sacred speech of the fully enlightened Buddha,
dampa dé la chaktsal lo
We pay homage!

dzokpé changchub drubpa la
May all obstacles,
chi dang nang gi tsewa yi
Outer and inner,
bardu chöpa tamché kün
To our attaining complete enlightenment,
nyewar shyiwar dzé du sol
Be totally pacified!

shyenyang kyewa dinyi du
Also, in this very life,
mitün chok kün shyiwa dang
May everything inharmonious be pacified, and
tsering nemé pünsum tsok
May we always enjoy peace and happiness, long life,
taktu dé dangden gyur chik
Good health, prosperity and success!

| Heart Sūtra translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.

Source: "shes rab kyi pha rol tu phyin pa'i snying po" in snga 'gyur smon lam chen mo'i zhal
'don phyogs bsrigs bzhugs so. Delhi: Chos spyod publication. 2008: 142–147