The Adamantine Magical Wheel
Invoking the Profound Pledge of Padmākara, the Glorious Victor, to Avert the Final War
by Dodrupchen Jigme Tenpe Nyima

emaho
Emaho!
kadak kyemé dorjé podrang né
From the ever-pure and uncreated vajra palace,
lhündrub dewé kuchen pema jung
Padmasambhava, spontaneous kāya of great bliss,
tsa sum chösung gyatsö chi pal ché
Universal heruka embodying the oceanic hordes of deities of the three roots and dharma guardians,
gangchen ten drö gönpo da shyeng shik
Protector of the teachings and beings of the Land of Snows, pray come now!

tamak damsi ru tsön zingpé tsé
At this time, the eve of the final battle, when hordes of demons and samaya-breakers gather
their legions,
rigdzin khandrö tso chok pema jung
Padmasambhava, supreme lord of all vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
tukjé tukdam mayel dü la bab
Pray don’t shrink from your promise now the time has come;
düdul gar gü zijin da kyé chik
Reveal your awesome, nine-fold, demon-subduing dance now!

ten shyab lalö dü la ringpé tsé
Now, when savages gather, the time to help the teachings has come.
demchok drubpé pawo pema jung
Heroic Padmasambhava, embodiment of supreme bliss,
ngönchö lé la gyepé dü yin gyi
The time for direct wrathful intervention is upon us;
pa tum dorjé zukku da shyeng shik
Come to our aid now in your adamantine form of extreme wrath!

bö kham tamak kyewö jikpé tsé
We Tibetans, born at the time of the final battle, are scared;
jikme tulshyuk chok drub pema jung
Padmasambhava, supreme master of fearless crazy wisdom,
pé gol lhakmar dzepé dü la bab
The time to wipe out the enemies has come:
drakshul raldri nowal da chung shik
Fiercely unsheathe your sword, raise it high—use your weapon now!

dü truk tsönché ru dzing ngampé tsé
Glorious and terrifying heruka, Padmasambhava,
jik dzé heruka pal pema jung
The time has come to suppress
kham sum tob kyi nönpé dü la bab
With the full force of the three worlds;
dechen dorjé tu nü da por chik
Pray intensify the power of your adamantine great bliss!

ying né dakchen nyampé yeshe ché
Out of the dharmadhātu comes forth the great wisdom of equality and great purity;
tum ngam ala halé ge gyang dang
It unleashes the sounds of 'ala' and 'hala' in a roar of laughter,
lhenchik tro la tröpé kur tön ching
And displays its extremely wrathful kāyas—
dü sin damsi nyingtrak da rol chik
Devour the heart blood of the demons, māras, rākṣasas, and samaya violators!

nyamnyi shyiwa chenpo chökü tuk
Without ever leaving the wisdom-mind dharmakāya's great peace and equanimity,
traktung tröpé zukkur ngön shyeng la
You arise as real blood-drinking rūpakāyas;
tamak dü kyi truktsö shyiwa dang
Pray quell the fighting of this, the final battle,
bö kham dé la göpé trinlé dzö
And restore peace to the land of Tibet!

At this terrible time of the final war, when the sea of its agents' blood paints the sky, the
crazy vagabond Jikmé Tenpé Nyima wrote this prayer. May it be the hammer that grinds the
barbarians' plans to dust.
I, the old tantrika Dilgo Khyentse, thought it appropriate for us Tibetans to recite this heartfelt
supplication to our sole unmistaken refuge, especially in these final times. Accordingly,
I arranged for the printing and distribution of this prayer. Śrī vijayantu!

| Translated by Tenzin Jamchen (Sean Price), 2014.