The General Visualization for Prayers to Guru Rinpoche
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

Namo guru! There follows a general visualization for prayers to Orgyen Rinpoche:
1. Taking Refuge
namo, lama deshek düpé ku
Namo! Lama, in your perfect form, you embody all the sugatas;
könchok sum gyi rangshyin la
Your very nature is that of the Three Jewels: Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha.
dak dang dro druk semchen nam
Until enlightenment is fully realized,
changchub bardu kyab su chi
We and all beings of the six realms take refuge in you.
3 times
2. Arousing the Awakened Mind of Bodhicitta
semkyé drowa kün döndu
We arouse the bodhicitta, the heart of the awakened mind, and, for the sake of all living beings,
lama sangye drub né ni
When we have accomplished the enlightened state of the master,
gang la gang dul trinlé kyi
We vow to liberate them all, through the enlightened actions
drowa dralwar damchao
Of teaching each and every one according to their needs.
3 times
3. The Seven Branch Offering
lama yidam khandro shek
Approach now, gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs:
nyi da pemé den la shyuk
Take your seats on these cushions of lotus, sun and moon.
lü ngak yi sum gü chaktsal
We offer homage, while devotion fills our body, speech and mind.
chi nang sangwé chöpa bul
We make offerings, outer, inner and secret.
nyam chak dikdrib tol shying shak
We confess all impairments and breakages of vows, all our harmful actions and obscurations.
sang ngak drub la jé yi rang
We rejoice that the Secret Mantrayāna is being accomplished in practice.
mindrol sang ngak chökhor kor
We request you to turn the wheel of the secret mantra teachings, which ripen and liberate.
nyangen mi da shyuk su sol
Remain with us without passing into nirvana, we pray.
nyingpo semchen döndu ngo
We dedicate all merit so that sentient beings attain the essence of enlightenment.
yangdak dorjé dön tok shok
May we all realize our true vajra nature!
4. The Main Visualization
dün gyi namkhar ö ngé long
Before us in the sky, in a shimmering sphere of light, white and blue, yellow, red and green,
sengtri pema nyidé teng
Floats a throne held aloft by lions, with cushions of lotus, sun and moon.
ku sum gyalwa düpé ngö
There you preside, the actual presence of all the buddhas of the three kāyas,
tsawé lama pemajung
Root master, in the form of the Lotus-born Guru.
kar mar dangden shyitrö nyam
Your complexion is white, tinged with red, your expression slightly wrathful,
pé shya sang pö chögö dang
Wearing the lotus hat, gown, and Dharma robes, with
zaok ber muk jipar sol
A magnificent dark red cape of shining brocade.
chak yé dorjé tsé nga dang
Your right hand holds a five-pointed vajra;
yönpé bhenda tsebum nam
Your left a skull cup containing the vase of long life.
drumo yön na khatam chang
A khaṭvāṅga cradled in your left arm,
dorjé kyiltrung dangché té
You are seated in the vajra posture.
ku sung tuk kyi kyilkhor lé
From the maṇḍalas of your wisdom body, speech and mind
tsa sum chösung rabjam kün
Appear infinite gurus, devas, ḍākinīs and dharmapālas;
trodü zijin lammewa
All send out and gather back brilliant, dazzling light,
ngönsum shyindu shyukpar gyur
And all become actually present, here.
Visualizing this, recite ‘The Prayer in Seven Chapters’ and ‘The Prayer to Guru Rinpoche that
Spontaneously Fulfils All Wishes’, ‘The Seven Line Prayer’, and ‘The Prayer which Removes
All Obstacles from the Path’, along with prayers taken from the earlier and later terma
treasures, and prayers of any kind that carry the blessing of the vajra speech of the saints
of the past. Recite them with an intense longing and yearning, and an all-consuming devotion.
If you can not manage this much, then it will be all right simply to recite ‘The Prayer to the
Three Kāya Guru’ and ‘The Prayer to Guru Rinpoche that Spontaneously Fulfils All Wishes’.
Whatever you do, at the end call out to Guru Rinpoche and invoke his wisdom mind by chanting
the Vajra Guru mantra as much as possible.
5. Empowerment and Dissolution
lamé né sum dru sum lé
From the three syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ at the three centres of the master,
özer rim dang chikchar trö
Rays of light burst out, one after another, and then all together.
dak gi né sum timpa yi
Streaming into our three centres, where they dissolve,
wang shyi tob ching drib shyi dak
Granting us the four empowerments, purifying our four obscurations, and
lam shyi gompé nö du gyur
Making us a suitable vessel to practise the four paths.
tar ni rang tim yermé ngang
Finally, the master dissolves into us, merging inseparably,
lodé chökü rang shyal ta
And in that state, we gaze into our original face: the dharmakāya, beyond the ordinary mind.
6. Dedication of Merit
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
orgyen lama drub gyur né
Accomplish the realization of the master of Orgyen, and so
drowa chik kyang malüpa
May I bring each and every single living being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
To that perfect state as well!
So, seal the practice with prayers of dedication.

To fit the exact requirements in the request made by the great incarnate treasure-revealer Chokgyur
Dechen Lingpa, this was composed by the favourite servant of the Lake-born Guru, Khyentsé
Wangpo Pema Ösel Dongak Lingpa. May all things be well!

| Translated by Rigpa Translations, 2004.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. "o rgyan rin po che'i gsol 'debs spyi'i rten bskyed mdor bsdus
lam zab snying po/" in gsung 'bum/_mkhyen brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok:
Gonpo Tseten, 1977–1980. Vol. 13: 447–450