The Bodhisattva’s Confession of Downfalls1
from the Words of the Buddha

semchen tamché takpar lama la kyab su chi o
All sentient beings take refuge always in the Guru;
sangye la kyab su chi o
Take refuge in the Buddha;
chö la kyab su chi o
Take refuge in the Dharma; and
gendün la kyab su chi o
Take refuge in the Saṅgha.

chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the blessed one, the tathāgata, the arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Śākyamuni!
dorjé nyingpo rabtu jompa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Vajra Conqueror;2
rinchen ötro la chaktsal lo
Homage to Blazing Jewel;3
luwang gi gyalpo la chaktsal lo
Homage to Sovereign King of Nāgas;4
pawö dé la chaktsal lo
Homage to Leader of the Warriors;5
palgyé la chaktsal lo
Homage to Heroic Sound;6
rinchen mé la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Jewel;7
rinchen da ö la chaktsal lo
Homage to Jewel Moonlight;8
tongwa dönyö la chaktsal lo
Homage to Unerring Vision;9
rinchen dawa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Jewel Moon;10
drima mepa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Stainless One;11
paljin la chaktsal lo
Homage to Gift of a Hero;12
tsangpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Pure One;13
tsangpé jin la chaktsal lo
Homage to Gift of Purity;14
chulha la chaktsal lo
Homage to Water Deity;15
chulhé lha la chaktsal lo
Homage to God of the Water Deities;16
palzang la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Goodness;17
tsenden pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Sandalwood;18
ziji tayé la chaktsal lo
Homage to Infinite Vitality;19
öpal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Splendour;20
nyangen mepé pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious One Without Sorrow;21
semé kyi bu la chaktsal lo
Homage to Son of No Craving;22
metok pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Flowers;23
deshyin shekpa tsangpé özer nampar rolpa ngönpar khyenpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata, Splendour of Brahma, Miraculous Insight;24
deshyin shekpa pemé özer nampar rolpa ngönpar khyenpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata, Splendorous Lotus, Miraculous Insight;25
norpal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Wealth;26
drenpé pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Mindfulness;27
tsenpal shintu yongdrak la chaktsal lo
Homage to Renowned and Glorious One;28
wangpö tok gi gyaltsen gyi gyalpo la chaktsal lo
Homage to King Indra’s Banner;29
shintu nampar nönpé pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Hero;30
yul lé shintu nampar gyalwa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Perfect Victor in Battle;31
nampar nönpé shekpé pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Transcendent Victory;32
künné nangwa köpé pal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Glorious Array of Eternal Splendour;33
rinchen pemé nampar nönpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Courageous Lotus Jewel;34
deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye rinpoche dang pemé den la rabtu shyukpa riwang
gi gyalpo la chaktsal lo
Homage to the tathāgata, the arhat, the complete and perfect buddha, Lotus Jewel Steadfast like
the King of Mountains.35

dedak lasokpa chok chü jikten gyi kham tamché na deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé
sangye chomdendé gang jinyé chik shyuk té tso shying shyepé sangye chomdendé dedak tamché
dak la gong su sol
May you, and however many other blessed ones, tathāgatas, arhats, complete and perfect buddhas
there are living and dwelling in all the world systems in all directions—all you blessed
buddhas—please pay attention to me!
dak gi kyewa di dang kyewa tokma dang tama machipa né khorwa na khorwé kyené tamché du dikpé
lé gyipa dang gyi du tsalwa dang gyipa la jesu yirangwa am
In this life and all my other lives circling from one form of saṃsāric existence to the next
throughout beginningless time—whatever wrongs I may have done, or caused other to do, or
have rejoiced in;
chörten gyi kor ram gendün gyi kor ram chok chü gendün gyi kor trokpa dang trok tu tsalwa dang
trokpa la jesu yirangwa am
Whatever possessions of stūpas, possessions of the Saṅgha, or possessions of saṅghas dwelling
in all directions, I may have appropriated, caused others to appropriate, or rejoiced in
the appropriation of;
tsam machipa ngé lé gyipa dang gyi du tsalwa dang gyipa la jesu yirangwa am
Whichever of the five actions of immediate retribution I may have committed, caused others to
commit, or rejoiced in;
migewa chü lé kyi lam yangdakpar langpa la shyukpa dang juk tu tsalwa dang shyukpa la jesu yirangwa
am
Whichever path of the ten unwholesome actions I may have embarked upon or am currently residing
on, incited others to enter, or rejoiced in;
lé kyi dribpa gang gi drib né dak semchen nyalwar chiwa am düdrö kyené su chiwa am yidak kyi
yul du chiwa am yul takhob tu kyewa am lalor kyewa am lha tseringpo nam su kyewa am wangpo
matsangwar gyurwa am tawa lokpar dzinpar gyurwa am sangye jungwa la nyepar mi gyipar gyurwé
lé kyi dribpa gang lakpa dedak tamché sangye chomdendé yeshe su gyurpa
Whatever karmic veils I may have developed that would lead to the hells, or to the animal realm,
or to the land of the pretas, or to birth in border regions, or amongst barbarians, or
amongst the long-lived gods, or that would lead to incomplete sense faculties, or holding
wrong views, or to not rejoicing at the advent of a Buddha—
chen du gyurpa pang du gyurpa tsemar gyurpa khyenpé zikpa dedak gi chen ngar tol lo chak so
mi chabwo mi bé do lenché kyang chö ching dompa gyi lak so
All of these I confess in the presence of the blessed buddhas, who are aware, who observe, who
are witnesses, who are authorities, who know and see. I admit them and do not conceal them,
and I make a vow to refrain from them henceforth!

sangye chomdendé dedak tamché dak la gong su sol
All you blessed buddhas, please pay attention to me!
dak gi kyewa di dang kyewa tokma dang tama chipa né khorwa na khorwé kyené shyendak tu jinpa
tana düdrö kyené su kyepa la zé kham chik tsam tsalwé gewé tsawa gang lakpa dang
Over the course of this life and all other lives in saṃsāra without beginning or end—whatever
wholesomeness there may be from having given gifts to others, even as little as a mouthful
of food to a being born as an animal;
dak gi tsultrim sungpé gewé tsawa gang lakpa dang
Whatever wholesomeness there may be in having preserved discipline;
dak gi tsangpar chöpa la nepé gewé tsawa gang lakpa dang
Whatever wholesomeness there may be in having maintained chaste behavior;
dak gi semchen yongsu minpar gyipé gewé tsawa gang lakpa dang
Whatever wholesomeness there may be in having caused sentient beings to mature;
dak gi changchub chok tu semkyepé gewé tsawa gang lakpa dang
Whatever wholesomeness there may be in having roused a mind set on supreme awakening;
dak gi lanamepa yeshe kyi gewé tsawa gang lakpa dedak tamché chik tu dü shing dum té
Whatever wholesomeness there may be in unsurpassable wisdom—
dom né lana machipa dang gong nama chipa dang gongmé gongma lamé lamar yongsu ngowé lanamepa
yangdakpar dzokpé changchub tu yongsu ngowar gyi o
Combining, gathering, and collecting all of this together, I dedicate it to the unexcelled,
unsurpassed, most exalted, the most excellent; I dedicate it to unsurpassable, complete and
perfect awakening.
jitar depé sangye chomdendé nam kyi yongsu ngöpa dang jitar majönpé sangye chomdendé nam kyi
yongsu ngowar gyurwa dang jitar dantar shyukpé sangye chomdendé nam kyi yongsu ngowar dzepa
deshyindu dak gi kyang yongsu ngowar gyi o
Just as past blessed buddhas have dedicated, and just as future buddhas, blessed ones, will
dedicate, and just as the buddhas, blessed ones of the present in all directions, are dedicating
now, I also fully dedicate in the very same way.
dikpa tamché ni sosor shak so
I confess each and every misdeed.
sönam tamché la ni jesu yi rang ngo
I rejoice in all goodness.
sangye tamché la ni kul shying solwa deb so
I request and pray to all the buddhas to teach and remain in saṃsāra.
dak gi lanamepa yeshe kyi chok dampa tobpar gyur chik
May I attain sublime, supreme, unsurpassed wisdom!
michok gyalwa gangdak dantar shyukpa dang
Supreme among humans, Victors now present,
gangdak depa dak dang deshyin gang majön
Those of the past, and those yet to come,
yönten ngakpa tayé gyatso dra kün la
Your praiseworthy qualities are boundless like the ocean—
talmo jarwar gyi té kyab su nyewar chi o
With folded palms, I take refuge in you!

This completes the Mahāyāna sūtra entitled “The Noble Three Heaps.”

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Stefan Mang, Peter Woods), 2020.
↑ This text is an excerpt from Ascertaining the Discipline: the Sūtra of Upāli's Questions (Toh
68 Vinayaviniścayopāli­paripṛcchāsūtra, 'dul ba rnam par gtan la dbab pa nye bar 'khor
gyis zhus pa'i mdo). The excerpt is cited in Śāntideva’s Compendium of Training (Toh 3940,
Śikṣāsamuccaya, bslab pa kun btus) as a method of purifying transgressions of vows and downfalls
of the bodhisattva vow. Unlike Ascertaining the Discipline, Śāntideva’s Compendium
of Training has been preserved in Sanskrit, eg. as inputted by Mirek Rozehnal and published
on GRETIL. The names of the Thirty-Five Buddhas as given in the footnotes have been checked
against the GRETIL Sanskrit edition.↑ Skt. Vajra-pramardin.↑ Skt. Ratnārcis.↑ Skt.
Nāgeśvara-rāja.↑ Skt. Vīra-sena.↑ Skt. Vīra-nandin.↑ Skt. Ratna-śrī.↑ Skt. Ratna-candra-prabha.↑
Skt. Amogha-darśin.↑ Skt. Ratna-candra.↑ Skt. Vimala. The Sanskrit version of the Śikṣāsamuccaya
adds a homage to Nirmala before Vimala. Both of these buddhas’ names could be
rendered into Tibetan as dri ma med pa.↑ Skt. Śūra-datta.↑ Skt. Brahmaṇa.↑ Skt. Brahma-datta.↑
Skt. Varuṇa.↑ Skt. Varuṇa-deva.↑ Skt. Bhadra-śrī.↑ Skt. Candana-śrī.↑ Skt. Anantaujas.↑
Skt. Prabhāsa-śrī.↑ Skt. Aśoka-śrī.↑ Skt. Nārāyaṇa. The Sanskrit is variously interpreted
as "resting upon water," “the path of human beings,” and “the son of man.” The Tibetan
interpretation, which we are following here is “the son of Nāra,” with Nāra translated as
“one without craving.”↑ Skt. Kusuma-śrī.↑ Skt. Brahma-jyotir-vikrīḍitābhi-jña.↑ Skt. Padma-jyotir-vikrīḍitābhi-jña.
The Sanskrit version of the Śikṣāsamuccaya omits a homage to this
buddha.↑ Skt. Dhana-śrī.↑ Skt. Smṛti-śrī.↑ Skt. Supari-kīrtita-nāma-dheya-śrī.↑ Skt. Indra-ketu-dhvaja-rāja.↑
Skt. Suvikrānta-śrī.↑ The Tibetan appears to translate the Sanskrit
name Vijitra-saṃ-grāma. Alternatively, the Tibetan could also be a translation of the Sanskrit
name Yuddhajaya. The Śikṣāsamuccaya reads Vicitra-saṃ-krama (Eng. Perfect Transference).↑
Skt. Vikrānta-gāmin.↑ Skt. Samantāva-bhāsa-vyūha-śrī.↑ Skt. Ratna-padma-vikrāmin.↑
Skt. Ratna-padma-supra-tiṣṭhita-śailendra-rāja.