The Aspiration of the Vajradhātu Maṇḍala
revealed by Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa

Namo Guru!
On the tenth day of the monkey month of the monkey year, the Guru of Uḍḍiyāna said this aspiration
prayer in the 'turquoise-covered shrine' on the second floor of Samye, at the time
of opening the Vajradhātu maṇḍala. The king and his subjects made it their constant heart
practice. Future generations should also maintain it one-pointedly.
chok chu dü shyii gyalwa sé dang ché
Buddhas and bodhisattva heirs of the ten directions and four times,
lama yidam khandro chö kyong tsok
Gurus, devas, ḍākinīs and the hosts of dharmapālas who guard the teachings—
malü shying gi dul nyé shek su sol
All of you without exception, as numerous as atoms in the universe, please come now
dün gyi namkhar pe dé den la shyuk
Into the space before me, and take your seats on these cushions of lotus and moon.

lü ngak yi sum güpé chaktsal lo
I pay homage with devotion in body, speech and mind.
chi nang sangwa déshyin nyi kyi chö
I present outer, inner and secret offerings and the gift of suchness.
ten chok déshek nam kyi chen nga ru
In the presence of the supreme support, the sugatas,
ngön gyi dikpe tsok la dak nong shying
I feel remorse for all my accumulated negative actions of the past,
daté migé gyöpé rap tu shak
And with regret I confess my present non-virtues:
chinché dé lé dok chir dak gi dam
From now on, I vow to turn away from them all.
sönam gé tsok kun la yirang ngo
I rejoice in all accumulations of virtue and merit.
gyalwé tsok nam nyangen midawar
I beseech all the victorious ones not to pass beyond sorrow,
dénö sum dang lamé chö khor kor
But to turn the wheel of the three piṭakas and of the unsurpassed Dharma.
gé tsok malü drowé gyü la ngo
I dedicate all accumulations of virtue, without exception, to the minds of beings:
dro nam lamé tarpé sar chin shok
May they all reach the ground of unsurpassable liberation!

sangyé sé ché dak la gong su sol
Buddhas and your bodhisattva heirs, turn your attention towards me!
dak gi tsampé mönlam rapzang di
May this excellent aspiration that I am now making,
gyalwa kuntuzang dang dé sé dang
Emulate the prayers
pakpa jampalyang kyi khyenpa tar
Of the victorious Samantabhadra with his bodhisattva heirs,
dédak kun gyi jésu dak lop shok
And noble Mañjughoṣa's omniscient wisdom.
tenpé palgyur lama rinchen nam
May the precious gurus, the glory of the teachings,
namkha shyintu kun la khyapar shok
Pervade everywhere like space itself,
nyi da shyintu kun la selwar shok
And illuminate everything like the sun and moon.
riwo shyintu taktu tenpar shok
May they always be with us, steadfast like mountains.

tenpé shyima gendun rinpoche
May the precious saṅgha, the bedrock of the teachings,
tuk tün trim tsang lap sum gyi chuk shok
Remain in harmony, maintain pure discipline and be rich in the three higher trainings.

tenpé nyingpo sang ngak drubpé dé
May the practitioners of the Secret Mantrayāna, the heart of the teachings,
damtsik den shying kyé dzok tarchin shok
Keep their samaya commitments and perfect the generation and completion stages.

tenpé jindak chökyong gyalpo yang
For the king who protects the Dharma, the benefactor of the teachings,
chapsi gyé shing ten la menpar shok
May his kingdom flourish and may he be of benefit to the Dharma.

tenpé shyap dek gyal rik lönpo yang
May those who serve the teachings, warriors and ministers,
lodrö rap pel tsal dang denpar shok
Possess increasing skills and supreme intelligence.

tenpé söjé khyimdak jorden nam
May the wealthy householders who sustain the teachings
longchö den shying nyertsé mépar shok
Be prosperous and always free from harm.

tenpa dépé yangpé gyalkham kun
May all Buddhist nations where there is faith in the teachings
dékyi den shying barché shyiwar shok
Enjoy happiness and well-being, with all obstacles pacified.

lam la népé naljor daknyi kyang
And for me, this yogi on the path,
damtsik minyam sampa drubpar shok
May my samaya never decline and my wishes be fulfilled.

dak la zang ngen lé kyi drel gyur gang
May whoever makes a connection with me, through positive or negative karma,
nékap tartuk gyalwé jédzin shok
Always be blessed by the buddhas' care,

dronam lamé tekpé gor shyuk né
And may all beings cross the gate of the supreme vehicle,
kunzang gyalsi chenpo tobpar shok
And reach Samantabhadra's great kingdom.
You should practise this aspiration diligently at the six times of the day. Samaya. Gya.

The great tertön Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa, who was an emanation of prince Murub Tsenpo, revealed
this treasure publicly, below the peak of Drakri Rinchen Tsekpa (Precious Rocky Mountain),
on the right edge of the most sublime place, Sengchen Namdrak (Great Lion Sky Rock). The
terma was originally written down by Yeshe Tsogyal in formal Tibetan handwriting upon silk
paper made from the Dharma robe of Vairotsana, and was immediately and perfectly transcribed
by Pema Garwang Lodrö Thayé upon discovery.
May virtue and well-being increase and spread!

| Rigpa Translations, 2014. Revised and edited for Lotsawa House, 2019.

Version: 1.3-20211001