The Secret Vajra Knot
An Aspiration Prayer of the Three Yogas
by Minling Terchen Rigdzin Gyurmé Dorjé

lama yidam lhatsok gong su sol
Gurus and hosts of yidam deities, turn your attention towards us!
deng dir tsönpé drubpé gewa dang
These positive actions we have accomplished through our efforts today,
dü sum sak dang yöpé gewa nam
All the merit we accumulate throughout the three times and all the virtue that exists,
dom té lamé changchub chenpor ngo
All gathered together, we now dedicate towards great and unsurpassed awakening!

deng né changchub nyingpor chi kyi bar
From now until we reach the heart of enlightenment,
rik zang losal ngagyal mepa dang
May we be born in a good family, be intelligent and free from pride,
nyingjé ché shying lama la gü den
May we have great compassion, and devotion to the teacher,
palden dorjé tek la ngé né shok
And confidently follow the glorious Vajra Vehicle!

wang gi min ching damtsik dompar den
Matured through empowerment and keeping the commitments of samaya,
rim nyi lam la nyendrub tarchin té
On the path of the two stages1 may we complete ‘approach’ and ‘accomplishment’,
kawa mepar rigdzin gopang drö
May we attain the vidyādhara levels2 without difficulty,
ngödrub nam nyi delak drub gyur chik
And easily achieve the two types of accomplishment!

chir nang gyutrul drawé khorlor dzok
May all appearances be realized as perfect, the mandala of the Net of Magical Illusion,
drakpa tamché jödral ngak kyi dra
All sounds as the inexpressible sound of mantra,
sem kyi gyuwa rangrig dümajé
All movement of mind as uncompounded self-knowing awareness,
dechen dudral mepar ngöngyur shok
And may we realize the great bliss that is beyond union and separation!

nyamchak tok drib mapang né su dak
Without rejecting impairments and breakages, thoughts and obscurations, may they be purified
in their own state.
chi nang sangwa yermé tokpé kang
Through realizing outer, inner and secret to be inseparable, may the samaya commitments be fulfilled.
gangshar rangdrol kunzang long yang su
May whatever arises in the mind be liberated by itself in the vast expanse of Samantabhadra,
ngensong dongtruk sishyi nyam gyur chik
May the lower realms be emptied from their depths, and may we realize the equality of saṃsāra
and nirvāṇa!

tiklé chenpor ku dang shyingkham dzok
Within the Great Sphere the kāyas and buddha fields are perfectly complete,
damtsik chenpor panglang tsenma dak
Within the Great Samaya the concepts of abandoning and adopting are purified,
khyabdal chenpor redok düpa drol
Within the Great All-Pervasiveness the knot of hope and fear is loosed,
dzogpachenpor chöku ngöngyur shok
Within the Great Perfection may we actualize the dharmakāya!

gyüpa sum gyi jinlab nying la shyuk
May the blessings of the three lineages3 enter our hearts,
gyutrul drawé lam sang sem la dzok
And the secret path of the Net of Magical Illusion be perfected in our minds.
trinlé nam shyi lhün gyi drubpa yi
Through the spontaneous accomplishment of the four activities,
muta mepé drowa drolwar shok
May we liberate the infinity of beings!

shyitro trulpé khorlö lung tön shying
May the mandalas of peaceful and wrathful emanations guide us with predictions,
khandro nam kyi bu shyin kyongwa dang
The ḍākinīs protect us as their own child,
chökyong sungmé barché kün sal né
And the Dharma protectors and guardians dispel all obstacles;
yi la mönpa tadak drub gyur chik
May all our aspirations be fulfilled!

gyalwé tenpa dar shying gyepa dang
May the teachings of the buddhas flourish and spread far and wide,
tendzin nam kyi shyepé dön kün drub
May the aspirations of all the holders of the teachings be fulfilled,
malü kyegü galkyen kün shyi shying
May each and every being be freed from all adversity,
püntsok tadak yishyin jor gyur chik
And may they receive all that is excellent just as they desire!

By Rigdzin Gyurmé Dorjé.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2007.

Version: 1.4-20211125
↑ This could refer to the generation and completion phases, or to the conceptual phase of yogic
practices related to the subtle channels, inner air and essences and the non-conceptual
phase of the actual nature of clear light. It could also refer to the two stages of Dzogchen
practice, tögal, the stage with appearances, and trekchö, the stage without appearances.
See Lala Sönam Chödrup, Collected Works, volume 3, page 366.↑ The four levels of a vidyādhara
are: fully matured vidyādhara, vidyādhara with power over life, mahāmudrā vidyādhara
and spontaneously accomplished vidyādhara. According to Lala Sönam Chödrup the first two
correspond to the path of seeing, the third to the path of meditation and the fourth to
the path of no-more-learning.↑ The three lineages (Tib. brgyud gsum) are: the mind transmission
of the buddhas, the sign transmission of the vidyādharas, and the oral transmission
of realized beings.