The Prayer of The Words of Truth
by His Holiness the Fourteenth Dalai Lama

namo  ratna  trayaya
Namo ratnatrayāya!1

tsé  mé  yönten  gyamtsöi  pal  nga  shying
Masters of the glory of an ocean of boundless qualities,
nyam  chung  dro  la  pu  chik  tar  gongpé
Who look upon all helpless beings as if they were an only child,
dü  sum  deshek  sé  dang  lobmar  ché
Sugatas of the past, present and future, bodhisattvas and those in training,
dak  gi  denpé  mengak  dir  gong  shik
Hear these truthful lamentations of mine, I pray!

si  shyi  dung  sel  yongdzok  tubpé  ten
May the complete teaching of buddha dispel the miseries of existence and quiescence,
dzam  ling  yangpé  pendéi  pal  du  gyé
Spread as the glory of benefit and happiness for the whole world!
dé  dzin  khé  dang  drubpé  kyebu  nam
And may the learned and accomplished holders of these teachings
chö  chö  nam  chüi  chawa  pelwar  dzö
Cause the activity of the ten dharmic actions to increase!

mi  zé  lé  ngen  drakpöi  yong  nönpé
Totally overcome by fierce and inexhaustible negative karma,
barmé  duhkhé  narwé  nyam  tak  dro
Beings are worn out and tormented by relentless suffering,
zö  ké  né  tsön  mugéi  jikpa  kun
May all the fears of unbearable illness, warfare and famine,
shyi  né  dega  gyamtsor  uk  yung  dzö
Be pacified, and relieved by an ocean of bliss!

khyepar  gang  jong  chö  den  kyé  dro  nam
And especially for the practitioners in the Land of Snows,
nak  chok  lalöi  pung  gi  tsé  mé  du
Mercilessly conquered by uncivilized forces of evil,
ngen  gü  jompé  trak  dang  chimé  gyün
May the flowing stream of their blood and tears
nyur  du  chépé  tukjéi  tu  pung  kyé
Be swiftly halted by the powerful might of compassion!

nyönmong  dön  gyi  nyöpé  lang  chö  kyi
Those who are driven mad by the demon of negative emotions,
rang  shyen  nyi  pung  gyipé  nyingjéi  yul
And pitifully bring ruin upon themselves and others through their reckless actions,
mi  sün  kyéwé  tsok  nam  lang  dor  mik
May such impudent beings gain the vision of what to adopt and abandon,
yong  top  jam  tsé  dzawé  pal  la  jor
And meet with kind and loving friends!

ring  né  nying  du  nakpé  döpé  dön
May the object of my most long-standing and heartfelt wish:
yongdzok  pö  jong  rang  wang  tsangmé  pal
The marvel of total independence and freedom for Tibet,
lhun  drup  chö  si  zung  drel  ga  tön  la
Be spontaneously accomplished! And may we be swiftly granted
chöpé  kalzang  nyurwa  nyi  du  tsöl
The good fortune to celebrate the unity of Dharma and affairs of state!

ten  dang  dé  dzin  chapsi  rang  rik  lé
Giving away their bodies held so dear, their lives and their possessions,
chépé  lü  sok  longchö  yong  tang  té
For the sake of the teachings and those who maintain them, for our culture and unique traditions,
kawa  gya  trak  drubpé  kyewo  nam
May those accomplished beings who undergo so many hardships,
dru  dzin  gön  dé  tukjé  kyongwar  dzö
Be protected by the compassionate lord of the Potala!

dor  na  gönpo  chenrézik  wang  gi
In short, may all the vast prayers of aspiration
sé  ché  gyalwé  chen  ngar  gang  chen  shying
The lord Avalokiteśvara made for the land of Tibet
yong  zung  gya  chen  mönlam  gang  dzépé
In the presence of the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs,
dré  zang  deng  dir  nyur  du  charwar  söl
Swiftly come to their positive fruition here and now!

nang  tong  chönyi  zabmöi  tendrel  dang
Through the interdependence of the profound intrinsic nature of appearance and emptiness,
chok  sum  tukjéi  tu  dang  dentsik  top
Through the power of the compassionate Three Jewels, by the force of these words of truth,
lé  dré  lu  mé  den  tü  dak  chak  gi
And through the strength of the infallible truth of cause and effect,
denpé  mönlam  gekmé  nyur  drup  shok
May this, our prayer of truth, be swiftly accomplished without any hindrance!

Written on the ninth day of the eighth month, Iron Mouse year (1960).

| Rigpa Translations
↑ This is Sanskrit for: Homage to the Three Jewels!