The Ritual for the Bodhisattva Vow, Arranged According to the Tradition of Patrul Rinpoche
by Chatral Rinpoche

The first step in taking the bodhisattva vow, the key to the path of the Mahāyāna, is to recall
the qualities of the Three Jewels:
Recalling the Qualities of the Three Jewels1
tamché khyenpa la chak tsal lo
Homage to the omniscient one!
di tar sangyé chomdende dé ni deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye rigpa dang shyap
su denpa
Thus the Buddha, the transcendent, accomplished conqueror, the tathāgata who has attained suchness,
the arhat who has conquered all foes, is a perfectly and completely enlightened buddha,
endowed with insight and worthy of reverence,
dewar shekpa
The sugata who has reached the state of bliss,
jikten khyenpa
The knower of the entire world,
kyebu dulwé khalo gyurwa
The guide and tamer of beings,
lana mépa
The unsurpassable one,
lha dang mi nam kyi tönpa
The teacher of gods and humans,
sangyé chomdendé té
The Buddha Bhagavat.
deshyin shekpa dé ni sonam dak gi gyu tünpa
The tathāgata is in harmony with all merit.
gewé tsawa nam chü mi zawa
He does not waste the sources of virtue.
zöpé raptu gyenpa
He is fully adorned with patience.
sönam kyi ter nam kyi shyi
He is the foundation of the treasures of merit.
pé ché zangpo nam kyi trépa
He is ornamented with the excellent minor marks.
tsen nam kyi metok gyépa
He is the full blossoming of the major marks.
chö yul renpar tünpa
His activity is timely and fitting.
tong na mitünpa mépa
Seeing him, there is nothing displeasing.
dépé möpanam la ngönpar gawa
He brings true joy to those who have faith.
sherab zilgyi minönpa
His insight overwhelms all in its splendour.
topnam la dziwa mépa
His powers are invincible.
semchen tamché kyi tönpa
He is the teacher of all sentient beings.
changchub sempa nam kyi yab
He is the father of all bodhisattvas.
pakpé gangzak nam kyi gyalpo
He is the sovereign of all the noble ones.
nyangen lé dépé drong khyer du drowa nam kyi dépön
He is the guide who leads beings to the city of nirvāṇa.
yeshé paktu mépa
He has measureless wisdom.
pobpa samgyi mikhyabpa
He possesses inconceivable fearlessness.
sung nampar dakpa
His speech is utterly pure.
yang nyenpa
Its tones are melodious.
ku ché tawé chok mi shépa
One can never have enough of looking at him.
ku tsungpa mépa
His form is without comparison.
döpa dak gi magöpa
He is unsullied by the realm of desire.
zuk dak gi nyewar magöpa
He is quite unsullied by the realm of form.
zukmépa dak dang madrépa
He is not caught up in the formless realm.
dukngal dak lé nampar drolwa
He is completely liberated from suffering.
pungpo dak lé raptu nampar drolwa
He is totally liberated from the aggregates.
kham nam dang mi denpa
He is not possessed with the constituents of ordinary experience.
kyemché nam dampa
He is in control of the sense fields.
düpa nam shintu chépa
He has cut right through the knots.
yong su dungwa dak lé nampar drolwa
He is completely liberated from torment.
sépa lé drolwa
He is freed from craving.
chuwo lé galwa
He has crossed over the river.
yeshé yong su dzokpa
He is perfected in all the wisdoms.
dépa dang majönpa dang data jungwé sangyé chomdendé nam kyi yeshé la népa
He abides in the wisdom of all the buddhas of past, present and future.
nyangen lé dépa la mi népa
He does not dwell in nirvāṇa.
yang dakpa nyi kyi ta la népa
He abides in perfect finality.
semchen tamché la zikpé sa la shyukpa té
He remains on the level where he sees all sentient beings.
di dak ni sangyé chomdendé nam kyi ku chéwé yönten yang dakpa nam so
All these are the authentic and supreme qualities of the embodiment of the Buddha.

dampé chö ni tokmar géwa bardu géwa tamar géwa
The sacred Dharma is good at the beginning, good in the middle and good at the end.
dön zangpo
It is excellent in meaning,
tsik dru zangpo
Excellent in words and syllables.
madrépa
It is distinctive.
yongsu dzokpa
It is totally complete.
yongsu dakpa
It is utterly pure.
yongsu jangwa
It completely purifies.
chomdendé kyi chö lekpar sungpa
The Buddha teaches the Dharma perfectly.
yangdakpar tongwa
It brings unerring vision.
né mépa
It is without affliction.
dü chépa mépa
It is constant and always timely.
nyewar töpa
It is trustworthy when applied.
di tongwa la dön yöpa
Seeing it fulfils one’s purpose.
khépa nam kyi soso rang gi rigpar chawa
The wise can validate it through their own awareness.
chomdendé kyi sungpé chö dulwa la lekpar tenpa
The Dharma taught by the buddha relies entirely on training the mind.
ngépar jungwa
It is truly delivering.
dzokpé changchub tu drowar chépa
It causes one to arrive at perfect enlightenment.
mi tünpa mé ching düpa dang denpa
It is without contradiction. It is all-embracing.
tenpa yöpa
It is constant.
gyuwa chépa o
It is the cessation of all uncertainty.

tekpa chenpöi gendün ni lekpar shyukpa
As for the Saṅgha of the Great vehicle, they enter thoroughly.
rigpar shyukpa
They enter with awareness.
drangpor shyukpa
They enter straightforwardly.
tünpar shyukpa
They enter harmoniously.
talmo jarwé ö su gyurpa
They are worthy of veneration with palms joined together.
chak chawé ö su gyurpa
They are worthy of receiving prostrations.
sönam kyi pal gyi shying
They are a glorious field of merit.
yön yong su jongwa chenpo
Offering to them brings great purification.
jinpé né su gyurpa
They are an object of generosity.
kuntu yang jinpé né su gyurpa chenpo o
They are in every way the greatest object of generosity.

gönpo tukjé ché denpa
The lord who possesses great kindness,
tamché khyenpa tönpa po
The omniscient teacher,
sönam yönten gyamtsöi shying
The source of oceans of merit and virtue,
déshyinshek la chak tsal lo
I prostrate to the Tathāgata.

dakpa döchak dralwé gyu
Pure, the cause of freedom from passion,
gewé ngensong lé drol shying
Virtuous, liberating from the lower realms,
chik tu döndam chok gyurpa
This alone is the supreme, ultimate truth:
shyi gyur chö la chak tsal lo
I prostrate to the Dharma, which is peace.

drol né drolwé lam yang tön
Having been liberated, they show the path to liberation.
labpa dak la rab tu gü
They are fully dedicated to the disciplines,
shying gi dampa yönten den
A holy field of merit, endowed with noble qualities:
gendün la yang chak tsal lo
I prostrate to the Saṅgha.

sangyé tso la chak tsal lo
I prostrate to the Buddha, the leader,
kyobpa chö la chak tsal lo
I prostrate to the Dharma, the protector,
gendün dé la chak tsal lo
I prostrate to the Saṅgha, the community,
sum la taktu gü chak tsal
I prostrate respectfully and always to these three!

sangyé yönten sam mi khyap
The Buddha’s virtues are inconceivable;
chö kyi yönten sam mi khyap
The Dharma’s virtues are inconceivable;
gendün yönten sam mi khyap
The Saṅgha’s virtues are inconceivable.
sam mi khyap la dé chépé
Having faith in these inconceivables,
nampar minpa ang sam mikhyap
Therefore the fruition is inconceivable:
namdak shying du kyépar shok
May I be born in a completely pure realm!
Prayer to the Bodhicitta and the Bodhisattvas
Now it is to the precious bodhicitta and the bodhisattvas, those who possess it, that we express
our respect and go for refuge:
ngendro lé ni dok gyi ching
Turning us back from the road to the lower realms,
tori lam ni rab tön la
It shows us the road to the higher realms,
ga shi mépar dren gyi pa
And leads to where there is no old age and death:
changchub sem la chak tsal lo
To this bodhicitta, in homage I bow!2
gang la sem kyi dampa rinchen dé
I bow to those who have given birth
kyépa dé yi ku la chak tsal shying
To this most precious and sacred of minds
gang la nöpa ché kyang dé drelwa
Who bring bliss to even those who cause them harm.
déwé jungné dé la kyab su chi
In such sources of happiness, I take refuge!
The Consecration of the Environment
könchok sum gyi denpa dang
Through the force of the truth of Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
sangyé dang changchub sempa tamché kyi chin gyi lap dang
The blessing of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
tsok nyi yong su dzokpé ngatang chenpo dang
The great power of the completed accumulation of merit and wisdom,
chö kyi ying nampar dak ching samgyi mikhyabpé top kyi
And the purity of the inconceivable dharmadhātu,
deng dir khoryuk gi sashyi di dak déwachen gyi shying gi köpa tabu punsum tsokpé gyen tamché
kyi nampar gyenpé dzé shing yidu ongwa samgyi mikhyabpar gyur
Now this whole environment becomes like the landscape of the buddha-field sukhāvatī, magnificently
arrayed with all kinds of exquisite ornaments, captivating and incredible in its beauty.
om sarwabid pura pura sura sura awartaya awartaya ho saparana kham
oṃ sarvavid pūra pūra sura sura āvartāya āvartāya ho spharaṇa khaṃ
3 times
Consecrating the Offerings
punsum tsokpé shying di dak tu lha dang mi'i yoché dampa zuk dang dra dang dri dang ro dang
rekcha la sokpa nampar dak ching yidu ongwé chöpé trin gyamtso samgyi mikhyabpé namkhé kham
tamché gangwar gyur
In this perfect realm, the sacred possessions of gods and men—forms, sounds, fragrances, tastes,
textures, and the like—inconceivable ocean-like clouds of offerings, so pure and enchanting,
fill the entire expanse of space:
namah sarwa tathagate bhayo bishva mukhebe sarwatha kham utgate saparana himam gagana kham soha
namaḥ sarva-tathāgatebhyo viśva-mukhebhyaḥ sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana-khaṃ svāhā
3 times
The Offering Cloud Dhāraṇī
namo ratna trayaya | namo | bhagavate vajra sara pramardhane tathagataya arhate samyak sambuddhaya
| tadhyata | om vajre vajre maha vajre maha tedzo vajre maha vidya vajre maha bodhitsitta
vajre maha bodhi mantopasam kramana vajre sarwa karma awarana vishva dhana vajre soha
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate vajra-sāra-pramardane tathāgatāyārhate samyak-saṃ-bhuddhāya
| tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahā-vajre mahā-teja-vajre mahā-vidyā-vajre mahā-bodhicitta-vajre
mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre sarva-karmāvaraṇa-viśodhana-vajre svāhā
3 times
Inviting the Buddhas and their Entourages as a Field of Merit
chok dü kun né kyab sum kadö ché
O three sources of refuge, of all directions and all times, along with those who attend you,
nyönmong dro la khyen tsé rabgong té
In all your wisdom and love, think of living beings, tormented by our negative emotions,
pakmé shying né tokmé dzutrul gyi
And come now, from limitless realms in unobstructed emanations,
dir shek chö trin gyamtsöi u shyuk sol
To take your place at the heart of this cloud of offerings.
malü semchen kun gyi gön gyur ching
You are the protectors of all beings, every single one.
dü dé pung ché mizé jomdzé lha
You are the deities who remorselessly destroy the māras and their forces.
ngönam malü jishyin khyen gyurpé
You who know all things just as they are, in their true nature,
chomden khor ché né dir shek su sol
Enlightened ones, with your retinues, come now to this place!
chomden kalpa drangmé duma ru
Enlightened ones, over countless incalculable aeons,
dro la tsé chir tukjé namjang shing
Because of your love for sentient beings, you cultivated compassion.
mönlam gya chen gongpa yong dzokpé
Your aspirations are vast, your vision all complete,
khyé shyé dro dön dzé dü di lak na
And if now is the time you intend to benefit beings,
dé chir chöying podrang lhundrup né
Then from the palace of the dharmadhātu, spontaneously perfect,
dzutrul chinlap natsok töndzé ching
Display all kinds of magical emanations and blessings,
tayé semchen tsoknam dralwé chir
And to liberate limitless sentient beings,
yongdak khor dang ché té shek su sol
Come now, I pray and with you your retinue, in all their utter purity.
chönam kun gyi wangchuk tso
You are the lords of all dharmas;
tsoma ser gyi dok dra shying
Like the hue of refined gold,
nyima lé lhak ziji ché
Your brilliance brighter than the sun.
dépé chen ni drangwar gyi
With faith and devotion, I invite you here.
shyi shying tukjé ché denpa
You possess peace and great compassion,
dül shying samten sa la shyuk
You reside in gentleness and the stages of concentration;
chö dang yeshé chak dralwa
You possess Dharma and wisdom free from desire,
kuntu mizé nüpar den
And strength that is completely inexhaustible.
tsurchön tsurchön shyi dak la
Come now, come from that state of peace,
tubpa kyéchok tamché khyen
Mighty sages, supreme beings, omniscient ones,
shintu lek ché zuk nyen ni
Assume exquisite illusory forms,
chöpé né dir shek su sol
And come to this place of offerings, I pray!
And so invoke them.
Inviting the Buddhas and their Retinues to Remain
chomden dir ni jönpa lek
Enlightened ones, welcome, now that you have come.
dak chak sonam kalpar den
We have such good fortune and merit.
dak gi chö yön shyé né kyang
Accept these offerings and then
tuk la gong shing nangwar dzö
Turn your minds towards us, please.
Offering the Buddhas their Places
padma kamalayé stam
oṃ padmakamalaya satvaṃ
I. The Preparation
The Seven Branches for Gathering the Accumulations
1. Prostration
lama nyam mé sangyé rinpoché
Incomparable masters, precious buddhas, as your nature
dü sum deshek sé ché tamché kyi
You possess the blessing of body, speech and mind
ku sung tuk kyi rangshyin chin labpa
Of all the sugatas and bodhisattvas, past, present and future:
kadrin chenpöi shyap la chak tsal lo
In homage I bow to those with such great kindness.
The Prayer in One Verse:
könchok sum la chak tsal lo
Homage to the Three Jewels!
kyébu khyu chok khyö dré gejong chenpo shyen dak lha yul sa la ang mé
Supreme among beings, in all the god realms there do not exist other great spiritual practitioners
like you.
jikten di na ang yöpa mayin namtö bu yi né na ang yö mayin
In this world too there are none, nor even in the realm of Vaiśravaṇa.
lha yi podrang né chok dak na ang mé la chok dang chok tsam dak na ang mé
In the supreme abodes, the palaces of the gods, there are none, nor in any direction, cardinal
or intermediate, are they to be found.
ri dang nak su chépé sa teng gyépa kuntu kor kyang gala yö
On the whole face of the earth with its mountains and its forests, where could any ever be?
The Prayer in Four Verses:
kur gyurpa ni tamché la ang
Whenever you take on a form, in every one,
tsen chok sum chu nyi ngawé
You are honoured as perfectly enlightened buddhas
dzokpé sangyé drak denpa
Endowed with all the thirty-two supreme marks:
gyalwa kun la chak tsal lo
To all you victorious ones, I pay homage.

dzoksang gang du tampa dang
Wherever the perfect buddhas are born,
gang du changchub la rek dang
Where they attain enlightenment,
shyiwé khorlo korwa dang
Turn the wheel of Dharma that pacifies,
zakmé nyangen dépa dang
And pass into immaculate nirvāṇa,

deshek gang du shyukpa dang
Where they dwell as sugatas,
chakpa dang ni shyengpa dang
Walk and stand and
sengé tabur zimpa yi
Where they sleep like lions:
né dé la ni dak chak tsal
To all those holy places, I pay homage!

teng dang wo dang bardak dang
Above and below and in between
chok dang chok tsam nam su yang
In the cardinal and intermediate directions,
kur ché ku ni mépa yi
Be they with form or without:
chörten la ni dak chak tsal
To the Stūpas, I pay homage!
These two praises should be recited alternately.
The Great Praise of the Twelve Acts of the Buddha3
sangyé shakya tubpa la chak tsal lo
Homage to the Buddha, Śākyamuni!
gang gi dangpor changchub tuk kyé né
You I shall praise, who first awakened the mind of enlightenment,
sönam yeshé tsok nyi dzok dzé ching
Then completed the accumulations of merit and wisdom,
dü dir dzépa gya chen drowa yi
And now in this age, through the vast sway of your actions,
gön gyur khyö la dak gi töpar gyi
Have become the lord and protector of living beings.

lha nam dön dzé dulwé dü khyen né
Homage to you, who, having taught the gods,
lha lé bab né langchen tar shek shing
Knew the time had come to tame the human world, and
rik la zik né lhamo gyutrul mé
Descending from the god realm like a great elephant,
lhum su shyukpar dzé la chak tsal lo
Foresaw the family of your birth and entered the womb of Māyādevī.

dawa chu dzok shakyé sépo ni
Homage to you, prince of the Śākyas, born after ten months
trashi lumbi'i tsal du tampé tsé
In the auspicious Lumbinī grove, where
tsang dang gyajin gyi tü tsen chok ni
Brahmā and Indra revered you, your supreme marks
changchub rik su ngé dzé chak tsal lo
Proving you were destined to be enlightened.

shyönnu tobden mi yi sengé dé
Homage to you, lion among men, in all your youthful vigour,
agha magadhar ni gyu tsal ten
Displaying your prowess in the games at Aṅga-Magadha,
kyéwo drekpa chen nam tsarché né
Where you triumphed over the proud contestants,
drenda mépar dzé la chak tsal lo
So that not one could stand as your rival.

jikten chö dang tünpar chawa dang
Homage to you, who, to comply with worldly convention,
khanamato pang chir tsünmo yi
And avoid all misdeeds, took on a queen and courtiers
khor dang den dzé tab la khépa yi
And by acting with such skilful means,
gyalsi kyongwar dzé la chak tsal lo
So you ruled the kingdom.

khorwé chawar nyingpo mé zik né
Homage to you, who saw that saṃsāra is wholly futile,
khyim né jung té kha la shek né kyang
Renounced the life of a householder,
chörten namdak drung du nyi lé nyi
And, travelling through the sky,
rabtu jungwar dzé la chak tsal lo
Ordained yourself before the Viśuddha Stūpa.

tsönpé changchub drubpar gong né ni
Homage to you, who, intent on persevering till enlightened,
nairandzané dram du lo druk tu
For six years practised austerities on the banks of the Nairañjanā,
kawa ché dzé tsöndrü tarchin né
And taking diligence to its ultimate perfection,
samten chok nyé dzé la chak tsal lo
Attained the supreme samādhi.

tokma mé né bépa dön yö chir
Homage to you, who, seeking to make meaningful
magadha yi changchub shing drung du
All your efforts, made throughout beginningless time, sat
kyiltrung miyo ngönpar sangyé né
Unmoving in the vajra posture beneath the bodhi-tree in Magadha
changchub dzokpar dzé la chak tsal lo
And awakened into true buddhahood, attaining perfect enlightenment.

tukjé dro la nyurdu zik né ni
Homage to you, who, in your compassion,
waranasi lasok né chok tu
Gazed at once upon living beings, then
chö kyi khorlo kor né dulcha nam
Turned the wheel of Dharma in sacred places like Vārāṇasī,
tekpa sum la gödzé chak tsal lo
And established disciples in the three vehicles.

shyen gyi golwa ngenpa tsarché chir
Homage to you, who destroyed evil-minded opponents,
mutek tönpa druk dang lhé chin sok
By defeating the six teachers of the tīrthikas, Devadatta and the rest,
khormo jik gi yul du dünam tul
As well as the māras in Vārāṇasī;4
tubpa yul lé gyal la chak tsal lo
You were the mighty sage, victorious in battle.

sipa sum na pé mé yönten gyi
Homage to you, who performed great miracles in Śrāvastī,
nyen du yöpar chotrul chenpo ten
Unmatched in their splendour in all the three realms,
lha mi drowa kun gyi rab chöpa
And through the offerings made by gods, humans and other beings,
tenpa gyépar dzé la chak tsal lo
Caused the teachings to prosper and increase.

lélo chen nam chö la kulché chir
Homage to you, who, to spur the lazy on to the Dharma,
tsachok drong gi sashyi tsangma ru
Left your body, though immortal and like a vajra,
chimé dorjé tabüi ku shek né
And passed into parinirvāṇa
nyangen dawar dzé la chak tsal lo
In the pure abode of Kuśinagara.

yangdak nyi du jikpa mé chir dang
Homage to you, who, to show that you had not in reality perished,
ma ong semchen sonam tobché chir
And so that beings of the future could gain merit,
dényi du ni ringsel mang trul né
Emanated a wealth of relics, and caused
kudung cha gyé dzé la chak tsal lo
Your remains to be divided into eight portions.
The Short Praise of the Buddha’s Deeds5
gang tsé kang nyi tsowo khyö tam tsé
When you were born, chief among human beings,
sachen di la gompa dün bor né
You took seven steps on this earth and said:
nga ni jikten di na chok ché sung
“In this world I am supreme.”
détsé khépa khyö la chak tsal lo
To you, O wise one, I pay homage!

dangpo ganden lha yi yul né jön
First, you descended from the heaven of Tuṣita,
gyalpöi khap tu yum gyi lhum su shyuk
And in the royal home entered your mother’s womb;
lumbini yi tsal du tubpa tam
In the grove at Lumbinī, O sage, you were born:
chomden lha yi lha la chak tsal lo
To the victorious ‘god among gods’, I pay homage!

shyalyékhang du mama gyé shyi chö
You were tended by thirty-two nurses at the palace,
shakyé drong du shyönnü roltsé dzé
You spent your youth in sports at the house of the Śākyas;
ser kyé né su sa tso khap tu shyé
At Kapilavastu you took Gopā as your wife:
si sum tsungmé ku la chak tsal lo
To you who are unequalled in the three worlds, I pay homage!

drong khyer go shyir kyowé tsul ten né
At the four city gates, you were shown the four kinds of sorrow,
chörten namdak drung né utra sil
And cut your own hair in front of the Viśuddha Stūpa;
nairandzané dram du katub dzé
On the banks of the Nairañjanā you practised as an ascetic:
drip nyi kyön dang dral la chak tsal lo
To you who are free from the faults of the two obscurations, I pay homage!

gyalpöi khap tu langchen nyönpa tül
At Rājagṛha you tamed a rogue elephant,
yangpa chen du tréu drangtsi pul
In Vaiśālī the monkeys offered you honey;
magadha ru tubpa ngön sangyé
In Magadha, O sage, you realized buddhahood:
khyenpé yeshé bar la chak tsal lo
To you in whom omniscient wisdom blossomed, I pay homage!

waranasir chö kyi khorlo kor
At Vārāṇasī you turned the wheel of Dharma,
dzeté tsal du chotrul chenpo ten
And in the Jeta Grove you showed great miracles;
tsachok drong du gongpa nyangendé
At Kuśinagara your wisdom mind passed into parinirvāṇa:
tuk ni namkha dra la chak tsal lo
To you whose mind is like the sky, I pay homage!

di tar tenpé dakpo sangyé chomdendé
Through the merit of this brief praise of
dzépé tsul la dotsam töpa yi
The deeds of the Enlightened One, Master of the Teaching,
gewé drowa kun gyi chöpa yang
May the actions of all living beings
deshek nyi kyi dzé dang tsungpar shok
Come to equal the acts of the Sugata himself.

dewar shekpa khyé ku chindra dang
O Sugata, may I and others have a form,
khor dang kutséi tsé dang shyingkham dang
An entourage, a life-span, a pure realm
khyé kyi tsen chok zangpo chindrawa
And sublime marks of perfection
déndra khonar dak sok gyurwar shok
Exactly like you.

khyé la tö ching solwa tabpé tü
Through the power of our praising you and this prayer,
dak sok gang na népé sa chok su
In whatever lands we dwell, may
né dön ulpong tabtsö shyiwa dang
Illness, negativity, poverty, and conflict be quelled,
chö dang trashi pelwar dzé du sol
And Dharma and auspiciousness increase and spread.
If you have time, then recite ‘The Praise of the Twelve Acts of the Buddha’ composed by the
omniscient Jikmé Lingpa:
The Praise of the Twelve Acts of the Buddha
gawa gya den chimé drong khyer né
In the city of the immortal gods, in the heaven of Tuṣita,
changchub sem kyi dampa tok karpo
The bodhisattva, holy Śvetaketu, saw the vessel
shakyé rik kyi tikler dzinpé nö
To contain the successor of the Śākya clan
gyutrul lhamo ridak mikchen yin
Was the lady Māyādevī, her eyes of doe-like beauty.
ö tong shar gyi ri la chépa shyin
Like the splendour of a sunrise on a mountain’s eastern face,
lhum kyi gesar shyépa lumbi tsal
She gave birth, a lotus opening in blossom, in the Lumbinī grove,
tsang dang wangpö si shyu dzé ché shing
Brahmā and Indra there to serve you, to tend you with all their grace;
changchub rik su lungten la chak tsal
You who were prophesied into the lineage of enlightened ones, I bow to you in homage!

langtsö drekpé shakya shyönnüi ü
Among the Śākya youths, vaunting their athletic physique,
gyutsal drukchu tsashyi roltsé tu
You excelled in your prowess in the sixty four crafts;
kun gyi khyö la tü ching drakpa yi
All conceded victory and your renown
kyégüi namshé mik dang nawar dzok
Filled the eyes and ears of all.
dö sé shyakpé shyen wang magyur shyin
Never were you slave to the noose of craving and desire,
yab chik gyé lé tsünmöi gyuma la
Yet to please your father, you married, but saw this illusion
gyumé tawé té né gyalpöi khap
For the illusion that it was, ruling the kingdom all the while.
kyangpé dön kun drubpa la chak tsal
So you were known as Sarvārthasiddha: I bow to you in homage!

shintu yo shying jikpa gyal si kyi
Though precarious, fraught with danger and with change,
chak kyüi wang du magyur gamé kyang
No-one was immune to the allure of the kingdom, save you.
ngépar jungwé kyen shyi khyö kyi tuk
Your mind was captivated by the four encounters that caused renunciation,
trok né rangjung gelong nyi du ten
And you ordained yourself, a self-originating bhikṣu.
tsöndrü lap kyi mi ngal nairandzar
Your constant perseverance, never tiring, by the Nairañjanā river
katub dungwa zöpé nying tob dang
Gave you the strength of mind to bear the agony of austerities, and
kuntok dulwé dzinpé samten la
The concentration to keep on taming conceptual thought,
chok chüi deshek gyé la chak tsal lo
Which delighted the sugatas of the ten directions: I bow to you in homage!

drangmé sum gyi si du nam rik kun
Through three incalculable aeons in samsaric existence,
tsok nyi tagü chingpa dön yö chir
You sought the meaningful, by binding all your thoughts
changchub shing drung dünam trakché né
With the rope of accumulating merit and wisdom.
ngönpar dzoksang gyawa gyal kun shi
Then, beneath the bodhi tree, you put the māras to flight,
khorwa ting ta mépé yangsa la
And attained enlightenment, as all the buddhas do.
gyukpé drowa khorlo sum gyi drü
On the ship of the three turnings of the Wheel of Dharma, you save
dral né tarpa dang ni namkhyen gyi
Beings who rush into saṃsāra’s bottomless and endless abyss,
Gopāng triwa khyö la chak tsal lo
And ferry them to the perfect levels of liberation and omniscience: I bow to you in homage!

tok ching chö kyang dompa minpé chang
Through the magical power of your miracles in Śravastī,
tungpé ché zir mutek tönpé ché
You rendered speechless the tīrthika teachers who,
nyen du yöpé chotrul tü chépé
With all their analysis and research, drunk on the wine of indulgence, had become oppressive
in the extreme.
kyeng dang ziji nyampé choga dzok
In the final contest they were humbled, their prestige all drained away,
dzutrul kangpa shyi la chok top khyö
As you triumphed through the ‘four bases of miraculous powers’.
kyé ga na chi tsorwa mi nyong yang
Though you never experienced the feelings of birth, old age, sickness and death,
ngépar parol dro di mi sem nam
To bring disillusion to those who never think on the certainty of death,
kyo lé nyangenda tön der chak tsal
You displayed your passing into parinirvāṇa: I bow to you in homage!

sönam nyam chung gyurpé drowa nam
As a device to let beings whose merit is weak or small
karpöi chö rap pelwé tsong zong ni
Increase their practice of the positive and virtuous,
dzépa mépé ringsel cha gyé du
You left relics, that were inexhaustible, in eight shares,
shyak té chö kyi ying su zimpa tar
And you slept in the dharmadhātu. So, may I too
dak kyang dzok min jang sum tarchin né
Bring perfecting, maturing and creating pure realms to completion,
kham sum lé dé womin chenpo ru
Then in the great Akaniṣṭha, that transcends the three realms,
ngönpar sangyé trulpé dzépa chü
Attain manifest buddhahood and through the ten acts displayed by a supreme emanation,
kun khyen khyé dang dro dön nyampar shok
Become your equal, omniscient one, in benefitting beings!
You may choose whether to recite long, medium-length or short praises of the Acts of the Buddha.
Offering Homage and Prostration6
jampal shyönnur gyurpa la chak tsal lo
Homage to Mañjuśrī, the youthful!
i. Prostration
ji nyé su dak chok chüi jikten na
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
dü sum shekpa mi yi sengé kun
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
dak gi malü dé dak tamché la
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
lü dang ngak yi dangwé chak gyi o
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
zangpo chöpé mönlam top dak gi
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
gyalwa tamché yi kyi ngön sum du
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
shying gi dul nyé lü rap tüpa yi
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
gyalwa kun la rap tu chak tsal lo
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
ii. Offering
dul chik teng na dul nyé sangyé nam
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
sangyé sé kyi ü na shyukpa dak
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
détar chö kyi ying nam malüpa
And so I imagine them filling
tamché gyalwa dak gi gangwar mö
Completely the entire space of reality.
dédak ngakpa mizé gyatso nam
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
yang kyi yenlak gyatsöi dra kun gyi
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
gyalwa kun gyi yönten rap jö ching
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
déwar shekpa tamché dak gi tö
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
2. Making Offerings
rinchen sem dé zungwar chawé chir
In order to hold this priceless jewel of a mind,
déshyin shekpa nam dang dampé chö
I make offerings to the Tathāgatas,
könchok drima mé dang sangyé sé
To the sacred Dharma—that most rare and immaculate of jewels—
yönten gyamtso nam la lekpar chö
And to the buddhas’ heirs, whose noble qualities are without limit.
The 37 Point Maṇḍala Offering
om benza bhumi ah hung
oṃ vajrabhūmi āḥ hūṃ
shyi yongsu dakpa wangchen ser gyi sashyi
The earth is the golden ground, completely pure, full of beauty and power.
om benza rekhé ah hung
oṃ vajrarekhe āḥ hūṃ
chi chakri khoryuk gi korwé ü su hung
The circular iron mountain wall completely surrounds it; in the centre is the letter hūṃ—
ri gyalpo rirab
Meru, the king of mountains;
shar lüpakpo lho dzambuling
In the East is Pūrvavideha, in the South is Jambudvīpa,
nub balangchö jang draminyen
In the West is Aparagodaniya, in the North is Uttarakuru.
lü dang lüpak ngayab dang ngayab shyen
Beside them are Deha and Videha, Cāmara and Aparacāmara,
yoden dang lamchok dro
Śāthā and Uttaramantriṇa,
draminyen dang draminyen gyi da
Kurava and Kaurava.

rinpoche riwo paksam gyi shing
The jewel mountain, the wish-fulfilling trees,
döjöwa mamöpé lotok
The wish-fulfilling cows, the harvest which needs no sowing,
khorlo rinpoche norbu rinpoche
The precious wheel, the precious gem,
tsünmo rinpoche lönpo rinpoche
The precious queen, the precious minister,
langpo rinpoche tachok rinpoche
The precious elephant, the precious horse,
makpön rinpoche ter chenpö bumpa
The precious general, the Vase of Great Treasure,

gekpama trengwama
The goddess of beauty, the goddess of garlands,
luma garma
The goddess of song, the goddess of dance,
metokma dukpöma
The goddess of flowers, the goddess of incense,
nangsalma drichabma
The goddess of light, the goddess of perfume,

nyima dawa rinpoche duk
The sun, the moon, the precious umbrella,
chok lé nampar gyalwé gyaltsen
The royal banner victorious in all directions:

lha dang mi paljor pünsum tsokpa matsangwa mepa
Here is all the bountiful wealth of gods and men, complete and flawless—
dinyi
All this I offer
drinchen tsawa dang gyüpar chépé palden lama dampa nam dang yidam gyalwé kyilkhor gyi lha tsok
sangyé dang changchub sempé tsok dang chépa nam la bulwar gyi o
To the root lama in all his compassion, to the glorious, sacred lineage lamas, to the victorious
yidam deities and all the deities of their maṇḍalas, to the buddhas and all the bodhisattvas.
tukjé drowé döndu shyé su sol
Please accept it, with compassion, for the benefit of beings
shyé né jingyi lab tu sol
Having accepted it, please grant your blessing!
Short Maṇḍala Offering
sa shyi pö chü juk shing métok tram
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers.
rirap ling shyi nyi dé gyenpa di
It is adorned with Sumeru, the king of mountains, the four quarters of the universe, and the
sun and the moon;
sangyé shying du mik té pulwa yi
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
dro kun namdak shying la chöpar shok
By virtue of this offering, may all beings here and now attain the happiness of that pure land!
tram guru ratna mandala pudza megha samudra saparana samayé ah hung
tram guru-ratna-maṇḍala-pūjā-megha-spharaṇa-samaye āḥ hūṃ
This is according to the tradition of Lama Phakpa. If so desired, then the Three Kāya Maṇḍala
Offering from the Longchen Nyingtik can be recited:
The Three Kāya Maṇḍala Offering
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Nirmāṇakāya Maṇḍala Offering
tong sum jikten chéwa trak gyé shying
One billion universes—a hundred times ten million worlds,7
rinchen na dün lha mi jorpé tam
Filled with all the wealth of gods and human beings, like the ‘seven precious gems’,8
dak lü longchö chépa yong bul gyi
My bodies, my possessions, and my sources of merit, all together, I offer them in their entirety,
so that
chö kyi khorlo gyurwé si top shok
I may attain a nirmāṇakāya birth, to turn the wheel of Dharma, liberating all beings!
Saṃbhogakāya Maṇḍala Offering
womin dechen tukpo köpé shying
The highest heaven of great bliss, the realm of Ghanavyūha,
ngepa nga den rik ngé tsombu chen
Perfect with the five certainties9 and the maṇḍala of the five buddha families,
dö yön chöpé trin pung samyepa
And inconceivably vast clouds of offerings of every variety of sensual and emotional stimulants—
pulwé longkü shying la chöpar shok
With this offering, may I enjoy the perfection of the saṃbhogakāya fields!
Dharmakāya Maṇḍala Offering
nangsi namdak shyönnu bumpé ku
Where all appearance and existence are completely pure from the very beginning—the youthful
vase body,
tukjé magak chö nyi rolpé gyen
Ornamented by the play of dharmatā, unceasing compassion,
ku dang tiklé dzinpa namdak shying
The realm where all clinging to the perception of kāyas and tikles is naturally liberated—
pulwé chö kü shying la chöpar shok
With this wisdom offering, may I enjoy the freedom of the dharmakāya reality!
Even if you do not recite this Three Kāya Maṇḍala Offering, it does not constitute an error
of omission.
In any case, there come the prayers of aspiration for what is being requested:
Aspirations
ku sum yongdzok lamé tsoknam la
To all the masters, who have perfected the three kāyas,
chi nang sangwa déshyin nyi kyi chö
I make offerings outer, inner, secret and of suchness.
dak lü longchö nang si yongshyé né
Accept my bodies, my possessions and the whole universe,
lamé chok gi ngödrup tsal du sol
And grant me the unexcelled supreme siddhi, I pray!
And:
nyé ché mandal zangpo di bulwé
By offering this excellent maṇḍala which delights you,
changchub lam la barché minjung shying
May no obstacle occur on the path to enlightenment,
dü sum deshek gongpa tokpa dang
May I realize the wisdom mind of all the sugatas, past, present and future,
sipar mitrul shyiwar mi né shing
And, neither deluded in saṃsāra, nor dwelling in the peace of nirvāṇa,
namkha nyampé dro nam drolwar shok
May I liberate beings as limitless as space!
ii. Offerings (continued)10
métok dampa trengwa dampa dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
silnyen nam dang chukpa dukchok dang
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
marmé chok dang dukpö dampa yi
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
gyalwa dédak la ni chöpar gyi
The brightest lamps and finest incense.

naza dampa nam dang dri chok dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
chéma purma ri rap nyampa dang
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
köpa khyépar pakpé chok kun gyi
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
gyalwa dé dak la ni chöpar gyi
Arranged in perfect symmetry.

chöpa gang nam lamé gyachéwa
Then, offerings vast and unsurpassable
dé dak gyalwa tamché la yang mö
I imagine I give to all the buddhas, and moved
zangpo chö la dépé top dak gi
By the power of my faith in Samantabhadra’s Good Actions—
gyalwa kun la chak tsal chöpar gyi
I prostrate and make offering to all you victorious ones.
Offering Our Bodies
lama gyalwa sé dang chénam la
To the master, to the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
dak gi go sum tendu bulwar gyi
I offer my body, speech and mind at all times.
sempa choknam dak ni yongshyé shik
O supreme bodhisattvas, accept me completely!
güpé khyé kyi bang su chiwar gyi
In my devotion, my only wish is to be your servant.
dak ni khyé kyi yongsu zungwé na
For if you take me, fully, into your care,
si la mijik semchen penpar gyi
I will have no fear of saṃsāra, as I will be helping sentient beings.
ngön gyi dik lé yangdak da gyi ching
All the harm I have done in the past is over and done;
dikpa shyenyang lenché mi gyé do
No further harm will I create from now on.
3. Confession of Harm
lama dorjé dzinpa chenpo la sokpa chok chu na shyukpé sangyé dang changchub sempa tamché la
gong su sol
O lama, great vajra holder, all you buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell in the ten directions:
turn your attention towards me, I pray!
dak ming di...(insert your name)... shyé gyiwé tsé khorwa tokma machipa né
I, (...insert your name...) throughout time without beginning in saṃsāra until this moment now,
data la tuk gi bardu nyönmongpa döchak dang shyédang dang
In the grip of negative emotions of attachment, aversion and stupidity,
timuk gi wang gi lü ngak yi sum gyi goné dikpa migéwa chu gyipa dang
With my body speech and mind I have committed: the ten negative acts,
tsammépa nga gyipa dang
The five crimes with immediate retribution,
dé dang nyewar nga gyipa dang
And the five crimes almost as grave.
sosor tarpé dompa dang galwa dang
I have broken the pratimokṣa vows,
changchub sempé labpa dang galwa dang sangngak kyi damtsik dang galwa dang
The bodhisattva precepts and the samayas of the secret mantra yāna.
pa dang ma la magüpa dang
I have failed to respect my mother and father,
khenpo dang lobpön la magüpa dang
My preceptor and master,
drok tsangpa tsungpar chöpa nam la magüpa dang
And the members of my Saṅgha.

könchok sum la nöpé lé gyipa dang
I have performed acts harmful to the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
dampé chö pangpa dang
Abandoned the sacred Dharma,
pakpé gendün la kurwa tabpa dang
Disdained the ārya Saṅgha,
semchen la nöpé lé gyipa la sokpa dikpa migéwé tsok dak gi gyipa dang
And acted so as to harm sentient beings, and more. all these harmful and negative acts I have
committed,
gyi du tsalwa dang
Allowed to be committed
shyen gyipa la jésu yirangwa la sokpa dorna tori dang tarpé gek su gyur ching
Or rejoiced at others’ committing, in short all the downfalls and wrongdoings that will obstruct
me from attaining higher realms and liberation,
khorwa dang ngensong gi gyur gyurpé nyé tung gi tsok chi chipa tamché lama dorjé dzinpa chenpo
la sokpa chok chu na shyukpé sangyé dang changchub sempa tamché kyi chen ngar tol lo shakso
And will be the cause of saṃsāra and lower realms, whatever they may be, in their entirety,
in the presence of you, the lama, great vajra holder, and all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
who dwell in the ten directions, I openly acknowledge and purify them!

michab bo
I do not hide them.
mibé do
Nor do I conceal them.
chin ché dompar gyi lak so
From now on I vow never to commit them again!
tol shying shak na dak déwa la rekpar népar gyur gyi
If I openly acknowledge and purify them, I shall attain the state of bliss;
ma tol ma shak na ni mingyur ro
If I do not, that will never be.
Then:11
iii. Confession
döchak shyédang timuk wang gi ni
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
lü dang ngak dang déshyin yi kyi kyang
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
dikpa dak gi gyipa chi chipa
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
dédak tamché dak gi sosor shak
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
4. The Remaining Four Branches12
iv. Rejoicing
chok chüi gyalwa kun dang sangyé sé
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
ranggyal nam dang lop dang milop dang
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
drowa kun gyi sönam gang la yang
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
dé dak kun gyi jésu dak yirang
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
v. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma
gang nam chok chüi jikten drönma nam
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
changchub rimpar sangyé machak nyé
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
gönpo dédak dak gi tamché la
I urge you: all of you protectors,
khorlo lanamépar korwa kul
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
vi. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa
nyangen da tön gang shyé dédak la
Joining my palms together, I pray
drowa kun la pen shying déwé chir
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa—
kalpa shying gi dul nyé shyukpar yang
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
dak gi talmo rapjar solwar gyi
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
vii. Dedication
chak tsalwa dang chö ching shakpa dang
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
jésu yirang kul shying solwa yi
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
géwa chungzé dak gi chi sakpa
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
tamché dak gi changchub chir ngo o
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
Training the Mind in the Four Immeasurables
ma namkha dang nyampé semchen tamché dewa dang dewé gyu dang denpar gyur chik
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, enjoy happiness and the causes of
happiness!
ma namkha dang nyampé dukngal dang dukngal gyi gyu dang dralwar gyur chik
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, be free from suffering and the causes
of suffering!
ma namkha dang nyampé dukngal mepé dewa dampa dang midralwar gyur chik
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, never be apart from the sacred happiness
devoid of suffering!
ma namkha dang nyampé nyering chakdang nyi dang dralwé tangnyom tsemepa la nepar gyur chik
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, dwell in boundless equanimity, which
is free from attachment to some and aversion to others!
3 times
Giving Away of the Three Bases of Clinging
lü dang déshyin longchö dang
My bodies and likewise my possessions
dü sum géwé ngöpo nam
And all my merits, past, present and future,
semchen kun gyi dön gyi chir
I give them all away, withholding not a thing,
pangpa mépar tangwar ja
To bring about the benefit of sentient beings.13
The Preliminary Prayer for Requesting the Attention of the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas and Teachers
chok chu na shyukpé sangyé chomdendé tamché dang
All you buddhas who dwell in the ten directions
sa chu la népé changchub sempa sempa chenpo nam dang
All you great bodhisattvas on the ten levels,
lama dorjé dzinpa chenpo nam dak la gong su sol
All you great teachers, the vajra-holders, turn your mind towards me, I pray!
II. The Main Part
Taking the Vows of Bodhicitta in Aspiration and Action Combined
changchub nyingpor chi kyi bar
Until I realize the essence of enlightenment,
sangyé nam la kyab su chi
I take refuge in the buddhas,
chö dang changchub sempa yi
And likewise in the Dharma,
tsok la ang déshyin kyab su chi
And the assembly of bodhisattvas.14
3 times
jitar ngön gyi déshek kyi
Just as the sugatas of former times
changchub tuk ni kyépa dang
Aroused the bodhicitta
changchub sempé labpa la
And established themselves by stages
dédak rimshyin népa tar
In the training of a bodhisattva,

déshyin dro la pen döndu
Just so, for the benefit of beings
changchub sem ni kyé gyi shying
I will arouse bodhicitta
déshyin du ni labpa la ang
And likewise I will train
rimpa shyin du labpar gyi
Progressively in those disciplines.15
3 times
On reciting this all the way through three times, we will have taken the vow of arousing the
bodhicitta. At the end comes the meditation on encouragement and rejoicing:
dengdü dak tsé drébu yö
Today, my birth has been fruitful
mi yi sipa lekpar top
I have well obtained a human existence.
déring sangyé rik su kyé
Today I am born into the family of the buddhas:
sangyé sé su da gyur to
I have become a son or daughter of the buddhas.16

da ni dak gi chi né kyang
From now on, at all costs, I will perform
rik dang tünpé lé tsam té
The actions befitting to my family.
kyön mé tsünpé rik di la
I will not be a stain
nyokpar mingyur détar ja
On this faultless noble family.17

longwé chak dar pungpo lé
Just like a blind person
ji tar rinchen nyépa tar
Happening upon a priceless jewel in a heap of rubbish,
déshyin jishyik tar té né
So, through some fortunate coincidence,
changchub sem ni dak la kyé
The bodhicitta has been born in me.18
And:
dak gi déring kyobpa tamché kyi
Today, in the presence of all the protectors,
chen ngar drowa déshek nyi dang ni
I invite all beings to the state of sugata,
bardu dé la drön du bö zin gyi
And, meanwhile, to happiness and bliss:
lha dang lhamin lasok gawar gyi
Gods, asuras and others—rejoice!19
The Series of Aspiration Prayers
changchub sem chok rinpoché
O sublime and precious bodhicitta,
makyépa nam kyé gyur chik
May it arise in those in whom it has not arisen;
kyépa nyampa mépa yang
May it never decline where it has arisen,
gong né gong du pelwar shok
But go on increasing further and further!

changchub sem dang mi dral shying
May they not be separated from bodhicitta,
changchub chö la shyölwa dang
But be always inclined to enlightened action:
sangyé nam kyi yongzung shying
May they be cared for by the buddhas, and
dü kyi lé nam pongwar shok
May they abandon harmful action.
And:
changchub sempa nam kyi ni
May the bodhisattvas’ good wishes
dro dön tuk la gong drup shok
For benefitting beings be fulfilled.
gönpo yi ni gang gongpa
Whatever the protectors have intended for them:
semchen nam la dé jor shok
May sentient beings receive it.

semchen tamché dé dang den gyur chik
May all sentient beings be happy.
ngendro tamché taktu tongpar shok
May all the lower realms be forever empty.
changchub sempa gang dak sar shyukpa
May the aspirations of all the bodhisattvas
dé dak kun gyi mönlam drubpar shok
Of the various bhūmis be fulfilled!
III. Conclusion
Recitation of the Dhāraṇī of Pure Discipline
déshyin shekpa tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to all the Tathāgatas!
changchub sempa sempa chenpo pakpa chenrézik wangchuk la chaktsal lo
Homage to the bodhisattva, the mahāsattva, the noble Lord Avalokiteśvara!
om amogha shila sambhara sambhara bhara bhara maha shuddha satva padma vibhushita bhudza dhara
dhara samanta awalokite hung pé soha
oṃ amoghaśīla saṃvara saṃvara vara vara mahā-śuddha-sattva-padma-vibhūṣita-puja-dhara-dhara-samanta-avalokite
hūṃ phaṭ svāhā
3 or 7 times
Aspiration Prayers
dak sok semchen tamché kyi gyü la tsultrim kyi paroltu chinpé chönam yongsu dzokpar gyur chik
May all aspects of the pāramitā of discipline be perfected completely within the minds of all
sentient beings, including me.
nyönmongpé tsultrim chalwa lé jungwé dikpa dang dribpa tamché jang shying dakpar gyur chik
May all the harmful actions and obscurations caused by breakages in discipline due to negative
emotions be cleansed and purified.
pakpa gyépé tsultrim kyi kalpa dang denpar gyur chik
May I possess the good fortune to practise discipline that pleases the noble ones.
nyönmongpé midziwar nampar drolwé déwa la rekpar népar gyur chik
May I attain the bliss of complete liberation, that is free from the oppression of negative
emotions.
And:
trim kyi tsultrim kyönmé ching
May my discipline be free from any flaw,
tsultrim nampar dak dang den
May my discipline be completely pure,
lomsem mépé tsultrim kyi
With discipline devoid of complacent pride,
tsultrim parol chin dzok shok
May I complete the pāramitā of discipline.
And:
gyalwa kun gyi jésu lobgyur té
Following in all the buddhas’ footsteps,
zangpo chöpa yongsu dzokché ching
May I bring Good actions to full perfection;
tsultrim chöpa drimé yong dakpa
May my conduct and discipline be flawless and pure,
taktu manyam kyönmé chöpar shok
May it never fail me or be at fault.
And:
shyen nö shyir ché pong la gompé tü
Through the power of training to abandon both harming others and the attitude behind it,
milam na yang dik sem minjung shying
May the thought of doing harm arise not even in my dreams;
changchub sem dang nam yang mi dralwé
May everything be auspicious for me to have that perfect discipline,
tsultrim punsum tsokpé trashi shok
Which never diverges from the altruistic mind of bodhicitta!
Afterword
This arrangement of the bodhisattva vow is according to the tradition of Patrul Rinpoche—Dza
Palge Tulku, Orgyen Chökyi Wangpo—who was no different from that great learned and realized
ācārya Śāntideva from the holy land of India, a manifestation in human form of the sublime,
noble Avalokiteśvara, ‘The Self Liberation of Suffering’. It was handed down in succession
by Patrul Rinpoche’s heart son, the great being Nyoshul Lungtok Tenpé Nyima, to Jetsün
Lama Ösel Rinchen Nyingpo Pema Ledrel Tsal— Khenpo Ngakchung—whose great disciple was the
supreme incarnation of Palyul Pema Norbu, Thubten Chökyi Langpo. At his seat the Dago monastery,
he sponsored its printing along with the rituals of the three roots of Longchen
Nyingtik. However the corrections were incomplete and in the text there were generally many
abbreviations of the style ‘...and so on’, with the result that not everyone found it easy
to recite. Because of this need, the corrections were made, the abbreviations filled out,
and it was arranged so it could be read straight through, with rubrics added for clarification.
It was edited by Chatral Sangye Dorje in the Male Fire Tiger year (1986) on the virtuous
eighth day of the fourth month in the practice centre of Lotus Grove in Nepal. The
calligrapher was Losal Abhaya. May virtue and goodness abound!

| Rigpa Translations 2001. (Some verses courtesy of Nalanda Translation Committee.)
↑ From the sūtra: Recalling the Qualities of the Three Jewels↑ From the Zangchö Mönlam↑ by Nāgārjuna↑
Tib. ‘khor mo ‘jig. According to Sakya Paṇḍita’s Gateway to Learning (mkhas ‘jug),
this is an alternative name of Vārāṇasī.↑ by Ārya Śūra↑ from the Seven Branches in the
Zangchö Mönlam, Samantabhadra’s ‘Aspiration to Good Actions’↑ Literally, ‘A third-order thousand
world system’. See Myriad Worlds, Jamgön Kongtrul Lodro Thaye, Ithaca: Snow Lion Publications,
1995, pp. 102-3.↑ The seven jewels of royal power (རྒྱལ་སྲིད་རིན་ཆེན་སྣ་བདུན་
Skt. saptaratna), the attributes of the universal monarch (Cakravartin) are: i) the precious
golden wheel, ii) the precious wish-fulfilling jewel, iii) the precious queen, iv) the
precious minister, v) the precious elephant, vi) the precious horse, and vii) the precious
general (or householder). See Buddhist Symbols, Dagyab Rinpoche, Boston: Wisdom, 1995, pp.
65-83.↑ The five certainties or perfections are the certain or perfect: teacher, teaching,
place, disciples and time.↑ from the Seven Branches in Samantabhadra’s ‘Aspiration to Good
Actions’↑ from the Seven Branches in Samantabhadra’s ‘Aspiration to Good Actions’↑ from
the Seven Branches in Samantabhadra’s ‘Aspiration to Good Actions’↑ from the Bodhicaryāvatāra,
III.11↑ from the Bodhicaryāvatāra, II.26↑ from the Bodhicaryāvatāra, III.23-24↑ from
the Bodhicaryāvatāra, III.26↑ from the Bodhicaryāvatāra, III.27↑ from the Bodhicaryāvatāra,
III.28↑ from the Bodhicaryāvatāra, III.34