The Music of Immortality
A Prayer for the Long Life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
ngak la wanggyur sheja tamché khyen
Powerful in speech, you know all that is to be known,
lo zang gyalwé ringluk nyinmor jé
And, like the sun, light up the victorious Lobzang Drakpa’s tradition,
gangchen tendzin gyatsö tsukgyen chok
Supreme crown jewel amidst all the infinite holders of the teachings in this snowy land—
shyabpé si té bardu shyuk soldeb
I pray that your life may be secure until the very end of existence!

dampé tsul gü yönten wangjor shying
Master of virtuous qualities and the nine ways of the saintly,
pak nor rinchen dün gyi ngönpar to
Pre-eminent through the seven riches of the noble ones,
chö kyi gyalpo si sum wang gyurwa
King of Dharma, with authority over the three planes of existence,
dzamling tenpé dakpo shyabten sol
Master of all that is taught in this world—I pray that your life may be secure!

drowé lama tsungpa mepé gön
Guide to all wandering beings, protector without equal,
chok gi sang sum ziji rab trowé
Through the radiant splendour of your supreme secret body, speech and mind,
chö nor dö tar dé shyi palyön gyé
May the glory of the four aspects of well-being—worldly values, wealth, pleasure and liberation—increase,
tenpa rinchen dar shying gyepar shok
And may the precious teachings flourish and spread far and wide!

While performing an elaborate offering as part of the maṇḍala ritual for the long-life practice
of Rigdzin Düpa, The Vase Nectar of Deathless Elixir, in the sacred place of Yamalung,
this was written by Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, who lives in the cooling compassionate shade of
this great and victorious master. May it be blessed so that it comes true, just as I have
prayed! Sarvadā maṅgalaṃ!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2014.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "7gong sa chen po'i zhabs brtan du gsol ba 'chi med
sgra dbyangs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 413