The Melodious Song of Immortality: A Prayer for Long Life
by Mipham Rinpoche

hrih, nangsi namdak lha yi kyilkhor du
Hrīḥ. In the divine maṇḍala of the utter purity of appearance and existence,
go sum dorjer min ching drol dzepé
You mature and liberate ordinary body, speech and mind as the three vajras,
rik kün khyab dak gyü kyi tönpapo
Lord of all buddha families, teacher of the tantras,
dorjé gyalpo taktu shyabten sol
Vajra sovereign: may your life remain forever firm!

dorjé lü la shyommé sang sum gyi
Within the vajra body, you manifest the maṇḍala of great bliss,
dé chen kyilkhor ngöndu jinpapo
The secret body, speech and mind that are indestructible.
dorjé lung gi dakpo chewé chok
Most supreme lord of the vajra transmission,
dorjé lobpön kal gyar shyabten sol
Vajra master: may your life be secure for a hundred aeons!

rangrig gyurmé dewa chenpö ying
Holder of the profound and perfect instructions
tsolmé lam né ngönsum sal dzepé
For directly revealing, through the path beyond effort,
dzokpé mengak zabmor nyer dzinpé
The space of great bliss, unchanging awareness:
palden lama si tar shyab ten sol
Glorious guru, may your life remain secure until the end of existence!

gyü sum lamé shyal kyin rinpoche
Precious regent of the gurus of the three lineages,
dü sum takpar dorjé kur shyeng né
May you remain forever in the vajra body, throughout past, present and future!
gyü sum chö kyi gyaltsen chenpo gang
And may the victory banner of the Dharma of the three transmissions
sa sum khyabpar taktu dreng gyur chik
Remain forever aloft, everywhere throughout the three planes of existence!

Thus, on the fifth day of third month in the earth mouse year of the 15th calendrical cycle
(i.e., 1888), Jampal Gyepe Dorje wrote whatever arose in his mind. By merely praying with
these words, may the interdependent circumstances arise for the lives of the genuine holders
of the teachings to remain secure for countless aeons to come and for virtue and goodness
to vastly increase.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2017.