The Resounding Drum of Truth: A Prayer and Aspiration
by His Holiness the Fourteenth Dalai Lama

khyentsé yönten tartuk kün dzok shing
In you, all the ultimate qualities of knowledge and love are complete,
pekar tar ngak yichen kün gyi gön
You who are exalted as the white lotus, protector of all living beings,
tenjung tam gyi duk kün shyil dzepé
You who eradicate all misery through your discourse on dependent arising,
namdren shakya sengé chiwö chö
Perfect guide, Lion of the Śākyas, I bow down before you.

khyö ten jang né jang du dar gyur shyé
As in your glorious pronouncements, which foretold
jitar pal gyi gur né ukyung tar
How the Dharma would spread further to the north,
khawé jong su gyalten yong khyab té
The Victor’s complete teaching reached the Land of Snows,
dzamling gyen du gyurpa kalpa zang
As an adornment for all the world, an excellence of fortune.

deta na yang kar min lé wang gi
Yet now, through the power of unwholesome actions,
dengdir gyalten nyam shing nöchü kün
The teachings are in decline, and the outer and inner world
duk zé jik nyé nyam ngé ngang tsul di
Are overwhelmed—beset by misery, on the verge of destruction.
tsé chen tukjé kyobpé dü la bab
It’s time to afford us protection in your great love and compassion!

dé lé dakchak gangjong lhami kün
Thus, let us all, divine and human, from the Land of Snows,
lhaksam dé dung drakpö nyer dum té
With our noble intentions and intense, fervent devotion,
deshek tsen zang tsuk tor ser jang tok
Offer this pure gold crest, the splendid mark of a sugata,
drangsong nö chok ngurmik gö zang ché
The supreme receptacle of a sage, and fine saffron robes.

pulwé tsok nyi gyachen gang chi dang
The vast twofold accumulation accruing from such offering,
shyenyang düsum dang drel gé tsok kün
Together with all the virtues related to the three times,
lhar ché drowé pendé jungwé né
I hereby dedicate, so that the Victor’s teachings, source of benefit for all,
gyalten mi nub yündu né chir ngo
Including the devas, may never decline but endure long into the future.

khakhyab lüchen chi dang khyepardu
For all embodied beings throughout the whole of space,
dzambü dré ten ling di kyendro kün
Especially the inhabitants of this continent of Jambudvīpa,
jam dang nyingjé samjor gongpel né
May loving and compassionate thoughts and deeds increase
truktsö nö tsé namyang minjung shok
And brutality, conflict and aggression cease for evermore.

ulpong nyamtak tsen nön nar chö dang
Poverty, oppression, tyranny, and persecution,
nö kyi güpé né yam jung truk sok
Infectious disease and disasters caused by environmental harm—
chinang galkyen gü tsok kün shyi né
May all such ills and adversity, both outer and inner, be pacified,
tamché ga dé pal la tak rol shok
And may everyone enjoy the splendour of happiness and wellbeing for evermore.

ri su ma ché chinang chö tsul la
Without sectarian bias but recognising the affinity of all followers
shyuk kün pentsün nyen shin dushé kyi
Of spiritual traditions, both Buddhist and non-Buddhist,
daknang norbü ö dang mi dralwar
May I never lack the gem-like radiance of pure perception,
chik tu dro pen jawar lhurlen shok
And earnestly strive to benefit living beings as a whole.

lhakpar silden jong su gyalwé ten
For the cool land of Tibet in particular, may the weakened teachings
nyampa sorchü mi nyam gongpel shying
Of the Victor be restored, never decline again but flourish and expand.
chösi rangwang dekyi sarpa yi
And with the newfound joy of spiritual and temporal autonomy,
bö bang tral yün dödön nyur drub shok
May Tibetan’s immediate and long-term wishes swiftly be fulfilled.

gangchen shying gi chösi jawé duk
May all those whose dedication is helping to raise the umbrella
dekpé sishyur tokpé kyewo kün
Of dharmic and temporal activity throughout the Land of Snows
lhaksam namchö pungpa rabten ching
Maintain positive intentions, intelligence and steadfast determination,
kyé kün chak na pemö jezung shok
And may all beings be cared for by Avalokiteśvara, Holder of the Lotus.

chökyi shying du chö min nyechö tsok
In the realm of Dharma, may the collections of non-dharmic, unwholesome deeds
chökyi shyi shying chösi lektsok kün
Be pacified through Dharma, and all that is positive, both dharmically and temporally,
chöden yi sam chö shyin nyur drub té
Be swiftly accomplished, according to the Dharma, by those with dharmic intention;
chökyi denpé chö min tar jé shok
And may the truth of the Dharma definitively put an end to all that is non-dharmic.

The Dalai Lama Tenzin Gyatso, a monk-follower of Śākyamuni, focused on general and particular
themes for the sake of the teachings and beings and made this prayer in the presence of
the supreme support of the Vajra Seat at the supreme place (Bodhgayā) on the fifteenth day
of the twelfth month  of the Tibetan year 2131, the Wood Monkey, which corresponds to January
15, 2005. May it be accomplished just so!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.