The Rishi's Maledictory Incantation
An Invocation of Wisdom Mind and Sacred Pledges for Reversing the Disturbances and Agitations
of Dark Times in the Form of an Aspiration Prayer
by Kyabje Chatral Rinpoche

namo guru ratna trayaya
Namo guru ratnatrayāya!1
kalzang shying gi namdren shakyé tok
Guide for this fortunate eon, crown ornament of the Śākyas,
sangye nyipa orgyen tsokyé jé
Second buddha, Lord Orgyen Tsokyé,
pakchok chenrezik dang jampal yang
Eight Close sons headed by
chakdor lasok changsem nyesé gyé
The supreme and noble Avalokiteśvara, Mañjuśrī, and Vajrapāṇi,
drolma nyerchik neten pakpé tsok
Twenty-one Tārās and the assembly of elders,
tsa gyü lama yidam shyitrö lha
Root and lineage masters, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
né sum khandro yeshe lé drubpé
Ḍākinīs of the three places, wisdom Dharma protectors,
chösung chok kyong palgön dünchu sok
Guardians of the four directions and the seventy glorious protectors,
ngönshé dzutrul tutob ngawa nam
Great masters with powers of clairvoyance and miraculous activity,
tsöden dro la zik shing gong su sol
In your wisdom, please turn your attention toward all beings engaged in conflict.

kal ngen dü té kyendro chi tün gyi
The shared negative karma of beings in this final dark age
lé ngen drebü tso chen dolwa lé
Froths as a huge ocean;
karchok yel shying nakchok dü dé yi
Goodness is neglected whilst the demons of evil
khadrak wangchen mi chen sem tsa gul
Churn intensely the minds of the powerful and the influential,
dzamling pung jé dul tsön mak truk lang
Spitting out wars that could reduce this earth to dust.
lok mön trul gyi tsönché tor lung ché
Hurricanes of weapons hatched from perverse aspirations
nöchü talwé dul du kechik la
Unleashed to turn the entire universe and its inhabitants instantly to ash.
lakpar gyur nyé té ngen ja ma ta
The portents of these bad omens of our approaching total destruction
nang drak tokpé chöyul ngöngyur kyang
Appear clearly in the sights, sounds, and thoughts of our world.
marik kyewo mong dang tetsom gyar
Yet the ignorant remain in their webs of delusion and doubt;
rab tum dadung dré du chang ma tsor
Exceedingly stupid, they still do not feel alarmed at all.
tö dang drenpa tsam gyi jik kyepé
We are filled with terror from just hearing or thinking
ngar majungwé dzamling pogyur gang
About the unprecedented transformation of our world.
dé dok tab dang resa shyen namé
And we have no means or hope to reverse this,
lumé könchok tsa sum khyé nam la
Save the undeceiving Three Jewels and Three Roots,
khyéü pamar bö dré me ngak kyi
To whom we cry like small children wailing for their parents.

soldeb odö böpa di lak na
Please hear our desperate prayers,
khyé nam ngön gyi damcha manyelwar
And remember your earlier commitments.
lok tar nyurwé tukjé chak kyong la
Extend your hands of compassion, as swift as lightning,
gönmé dro di sung kyob jik drol dzö
To hold and shelter those lacking protection and free us from our terror.

dzamling kyendrö dekyi trok jepé
When powerful barbarians who plunder the happiness of beings in our world
tobchen lalö yul gyé drö sham tsé
Plot their battles,
tsowo nam dang dé yi khalowa
Please transform these leaders and their minions—
ma rung duktsub sam ngen changwa nam
Such ruthless malefactors—
shyidé tünpé chok su gyur du sol
Into proponents of peace, happiness and harmony.

galkyen mak truk rangsar shyiwa dang
Please extinguish the adverse circumstances of war right on the spot
düdé dul tsön dok ching shyompar dzö
And expel and destroy these demonic atomic weapons.

dé yi tu lé dzamling sachen dir
Then, throughout our great earth,
tendzin shyabten shedrub chok kündar
Let Dharma teachers, learning, and accomplishment flourish in all directions.
ten dror tsé jé mi dang mi min gyi
Liberate the world from the claws of nasty gangs of human and non-human
nakpö tsalak der ché ming tsam tong
Executioners of the teachings and sentient beings, until not even their names remain.

jikten küntu delek gyachenpö
May vast happiness saturate the whole world,
yong khyab dé shyi pal gyi ngön to shying
And beings be elevated through the glory of the four pursuits2 to the Truly High.3
dzokden dü shyin tab truk tsemé par
May the times become perfect without the harm of war and strife, as during the Golden Age,
kün kyang dé gé gar gyi drel gyur chik
With everyone constantly enraptured in the dance of bliss and joy.

kyabné chok sum gyatsö tukjé dang
Through the compassion of the ocean of the Three Jewels
chöying namkün chokden den tob kyi
And the power of the truth of the dharmadhātu endowed with all supreme aspects,
dakchak sampa dakpé soltab dön
May the purposes of our pure prayers be fulfilled
jitar ré mön yishyin drub gyur chik
And our hopes and aspirations accomplished just the same.
teyata pentsa driya awa bodhanaye soha
tadyathā pañcendriyāvabodhanīye svāhā
The use of the poison of atomic weapons that have the power to destroy in a single second the
presence of the Buddha’s teachings and the lives of sentient beings on this great earth
of ours, along with every bit of goodness in the universe and its inhabitants, will destroy
the human race. The time when such extremely lethal, never-seen-before weapons will be used
is not far off—the signs and indications are growing each day. So, moved irrepressibly
by insupportable sadness and intense fear, we must call out like children wailing for their
mothers to the one who can stop this, Orgyen Padma.
Thinking of the tremendous need for and benefit of reciting and writing on silk to hoist on
mountain tops and hang from bridges, a prayer such as this, which invokes the most important
sacred pledges and wisdom of the ocean of the Three Jewels of refuge, I, the vagabond Buddha
Vajra (Sangye Dorje), wrote this with a pure intention on the thirteenth day of the
third month in the year of the female Water Sow. Those with faith in me should keep this in
their hearts. May the merit of writing this purge the barbarian hordes who trample the sublime
teachings.

| Translated by Christina Monson, 2014. Revised and edited for Lotsawa House.

Version: 1.4-20220224
↑ i.e., Homage to the Guru and Three Jewels.↑ Duty, wealth, pleasure, and liberation.↑ Good
rebirth as a god or human being.