The Means for Accomplishment called ‘Blazing Wheel’1
revealed by Tulku Zangpo Drakpa

gyagar ké du tsatra dzala no bi ka nama
In the language of India: cakra-jvala-novika-nāma
böké du khorlo barwa shyejawé drubtab
In the language of Tibet: ’khor lo ’bar ba zhes bya ba’i sgrub thabs
In the English language: The Means for Accomplishment2 called ‘Blazing Wheel’
sangye dang changchub sempa tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to all buddhas and bodhisattvas!
diké dak gi töpa dü chik na chomdendé dorjé den la shyuk té dü tulwé tsé rigdzin changchub sempa
nam kyi diké ché shyü so
Thus have I heard at one time the Blessed One was dwelling in Vajrāsana taming demons. At that
time the assembly of vidyādharas and bodhisattvas asked the Blessed One:
chomdendé dakchak rigdzin drubpar jepa la bardu chöpé dragek mang na di la tab jitar gyi shyé
shyü so
“O Blessed One, there are many enemies and evil spirits before the attainment of the vidyādhara
stages. What skilful means can we apply to exorcise them?”
chomdendé kyi katsal pa
The Blessed One replied:
khorlo barwa shyejawé ngak dang drubtab yö kyi di long shik chong shik lok chik yi la gyi shik
ngak di depa tsam gyi gek tamché lé gyalwar gyur ro gek tamché lé gyal shying nyam ngawa
mepar gyur ro ngak ni di o
“There is the mantra and means for accomplishment called Cakrajvalā, the Blazing Wheel. Take
it, keep it, read it, and apply it. By merely reciting this mantra you will rise victorious
over all evil ones. Thus you will conquer all evil and become fearless. The mantra is:
om dhuru dhuru tsatra | dzaya dzaya tsatra | hana hana tsatra | bhuru bhuru tsatra | bhramara
bhramara tsatra | bhedu mani tsatra | dzala dzala tsatra | sambhawé gana naya sara tsatra
| salaya salaya tsatra | naga shaya naga shaya tsatra | bam bam tsatra | hung hung pé pé
| samenta gara tsatra |  tipta tsatra hung pé |
oṃ dhuru dhuru cakra | jaya jaya cakra | hana hana cakra | bhuru bhuru cakra | bhramara bhramara
cakra | bhedu maṇi-cakra | jvala jvala cakra | saṃbhave gana naya sara cakra | sālaya
sālaya cakra | nāgaśaya nāgaśaya cakra | baṃ baṃ cakra | hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ | samanta-ghara
cakra | dīpta cakra hūṃ phaṭ |
ngak di depa tsam gyi sichen drakpo dang shing shi kha jewa si lé tarwar gyur ro deké ché ka
tsalpa dang rigdzin dang changchub sempé tsok yirang té chomdendé kyi sungpa la ngönpar tö
do
By merely reciting this mantra fierce si-spirits will be cleared away, and you will be liberated
from the ‘si-spirits of innumerable deaths’.”3

Tulku Zangpo Drakpa revealed this terma-treasure from Gyang Yönpo and transmitted it to Rigdzin
Gödem.

| Translated by Stefan Mang and Peter Woods, 2017.
↑ Alternatively, the practice is often referred to as ‘the 13 chakras mantra’ (tsakra bcu gsum
gyi sngags), because its mantra includes 13 times the term cakra.↑ Tib. sgrub thabs. Skt.
*novika. Usually ‘sgrub thabs’ translates the Sanskrit term sādhana. Likewise, in English
translations it is common to use the Sanskrit term sādhana. In this case, ‘sgrub thabs’
renders the term *novika into Tibetan. *novika does not appear to be a Sanskrit word. Thus,
instead of the common practice of back-translating ‘sgrub thabs’ into Sanskrit as sādhana,
here the term, as it is explained later on, is translated as ‘means for accomplishment
[of the stages of the vidyādharas].↑ A ‘si-spirit of innumerable deaths’ (shi kha bye ba
sri) is a specific type of si-spirit that can arise when someone dies (shi kha). If not averted,
this si-spirit can lead to innumerable further deaths at the same place in the future.
This mantra has special power to protect against and avert all si-spirits.