The King of Aspiration Prayers: Samantabhadra’s “Aspiration to Good Actions” (Zangchö Mönlam)
from the Gaṇḍavyūha chapter of the Avataṃsaka sūtra

gyagar ké du arya bhadratsarya pranidhana radza
In the language of India: Ārya-Bhadracaryā-Praṇidhāna-Rāja
böké du pakpa zangpo chöpé mönlam gyi gyalpo
In the language of Tibet: Pakpa Zangpo Chöpé Mönlam gyi Gyalpo

In the English language: The King of Aspiration Prayers: Samantabhadra’s “Aspiration To Good
Actions”
The Translators’ Homage
jampal shyönnur gyurpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Mañjuśrī, the youthful!
The Seven Preliminaries for Purifying the Mind
1. Prostration
jinyé su dak chok chü jikten na
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
dü sum shekpa mi yi sengé kün
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
dak gi malü dedak tamché la
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
lü dang ngak yi dangwé chak gyi o
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.

zangpo chöpé mönlam tob dak gi
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
gyalwa tamché yi kyi ngönsum du
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
shying gi dul nyé lü rab tüpa yi
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
gyalwa kün la rabtu chaktsal lo
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
2. Offering
dul chik teng na dul nyé sangye nam
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
sangye sé kyi ü na shyukpa dak
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
detar chö kyi ying nam malüpa
And so I imagine them filling
tamché gyalwa dak gi gangwar mö
Completely the entire space of reality.

dedak ngakpa mizé gyatso nam
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
yang kyi yenlak gyatsö dra kün gyi
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
gyalwa kün gyi yönten rab jö ching
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
dewar shekpa tamché dak gi tö
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.

metok dampa trengwa dampa dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
silnyen nam dang jukpa duk chok dang
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
marmé chok dang dukpö dampa yi
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
gyalwa dedak la ni chöpar gyi
The brightest lamps and finest incense.

naza dampa nam dang dri chok dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
chema purma rirab nyampa dang
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
köpa khyepar pakpé chok kün gyi
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
gyalwa dedak la ni chöpar gyi
Arranged in perfect symmetry.

chöpa gang nam lamé gya chewa
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
dedak gyalwa tamché la yang mö
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
zangpo chö la depé tob dak gi
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
gyalwa kün la chaktsal chöpar gyi
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
3. Confession
döchak shyedang timuk wang gi ni
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
lü dang ngak dang deshyin yi kyi kyang
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
dikpa dak gi gyipa chi chipa
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
dedak tamché dak gi sosor shak
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
4. Rejoicing
chok chü gyalwa kün dang sangye sé
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
ranggyal nam dang lob dang mi lob dang
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
drowa kün gyi sönam gangla yang
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
dedak kün gyi jesu dak yi rang
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma
gang nam chok chü jikten drönma nam
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
changchub rimpar sangye machak nyé
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
gönpo dedak dak gi tamché la
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
khorlo lanamepar korwar kul
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
6. Requesting the Buddhas not to Enter Nirvāṇa
nya ngen da tön gang shyé dedak la
Joining my palms together, I pray
drowa kün la pen shying dewé chir
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
kalpa shying gi dul nyé shyukpar yang
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
dak gi talmo rab jar solwar gyi
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
7. Dedication
chaktsalwa dang chö ching shakpa dang
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
jesu yi rang kul shying solwa yi
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
gewa chungzé dak gi chi sakpa
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
tamché dak gi changchub chir ngo o
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
The Actual Aspiration
1. Aspiration for Purity of Attitude
depé sangye nam dang chok chu yi
Let offerings be made to buddhas of the past,
jikten dak na gang shyuk chöpar gyur
And all who now dwell throughout the ten directions of this universe!
gangyang majön dedak rab nyurwar
Let all who are yet to come swiftly fulfil their wishes
sam dzok changchub rimpar sangye chön
And attain the stages of enlightenment and buddhahood!

chok chu galé shying nam jinyepa
Let as many worlds as there are in all the ten directions
dedak gyacher yongsu dakpar gyur
Transform into realms that are vast and utterly pure,
changchub shingwang drung shek gyalwa dang
Filled with buddhas who have sat before the mighty bodhi tree,
sangye sé kyi rabtu gangwar shok
Around them all their bodhisattva sons and daughters!

chok chü semchen gang nam jinyé pa
Let as many sentient beings as there are in all the ten directions
dedak taktu nemé dewar gyur
Live always and forever in happiness and health!
drowa kün gyi chö kyi dön nam ni
Let all beings meet the Dharma
tünpar gyur ching rewa ang drubpar shok
That befits them best! And so may all they hope for be fulfilled!
2. Aspiration Never to Forget the Bodhicitta
changchub chöpa dak ni dak chö ching
As I practise the training for enlightenment,
drowa küntu kyewa drenpar gyur
May I recall all my previous births,
tserab küntu chipo kyewa na
And in my successive lives, through death and through rebirth,
taktu dak ni rabtu jungwar shok
May I always renounce the worldly life!

gyalwa kün gyi jesu lob gyur té
Training in the footsteps of all the victorious buddhas,
zangpo chöpa yongsu dzok jé ching
May I bring Good Actions to perfection,
tsultrim chöpa drimé yong dakpa
And my moral conduct be taintless and pure,
taktu manyam kyönmé chöpar shok
Never lapsing, and always free from fault!

lha yi ké dang lu dang nöjin ké
In the language of the gods, nāgas, and yakṣas,
drulbum dak dang mi yi ké nam dang
In the language of demons and of humans too,
drowa kün gyi dra nam ji tsampar
In however many kinds of speech there may be—
tamché ké du dak gi chö ten to
I shall proclaim the Dharma in the language of all!

dé shing parol chin la rab tsön té
Taming my mind, and striving in the pāramitās,
changchub sem ni namyang jé magyur
I will never forget the bodhicitta;
dikpa gang nam dribpar gyurpa dak
May all my harmful actions and the obscurations they cause
dedak malü yongsu jangwar shok
Be completely purified, every single one!
3. Aspiration to be Free from Defilements
lé dang nyönmong dü kyi lé nam lé
May I be freed from karma, harmful emotions, and the work of negativity,
drol shying jikten drowa nam su yang
And act for all beings in the world,
jitar pemo chü michakpa shyin
Just like the lotus flower to which mud and water cannot cling,
nyida namkhar tokpamé tar ché
Or sun and moon that course unhindered through the sky.
4. Aspiration to Lead Beings to Happiness
shying gi khyön dang chok nam chi tsampar
Throughout the reach and range of the entire universe
ngensong dukngal rabtu shyiwar jé
I shall pacify completely the suffering of all the lower realms,
dewa dak la drowa kün gö ching
I shall lead all beings to happiness,
drowa tamché la ni penpar ché
And work for the ultimate benefit of each and every one!
5. Aspiration to Wear the Armour of Dedication
changchub chöpa yongsu dzokjé ching
I shall bring enlightened action to perfection,
semchen dak gi chö dang tünpar juk
Serve beings so as to suit their needs,
zangpo chöpa dak ni rab tön ching
Teach them to accomplish Good Actions,
ma ong kalpa küntu chöpar gyur
And continue this, throughout all the aeons to come!
6. Aspiration to Accompany other Bodhisattvas
dak gi chö dang tsungpar gang chöpa
May I always meet and be accompanied by
dedak dang ni taktu drokpar shok
Those whose actions accord with mine;
lü dang ngak nam dang ni sem kyi kyang
And in body, speech and mind as well,
chöpa dak dang mönlam chik tu ché
May our actions and aspirations always be one!
7. Aspiration to Have Virtuous Teachers and to Please Them
dak la penpar döpé drokpo dak
May I always meet spiritual friends
zangpo chöpa rabtu tönpa nam
Who long to be of true help to me,
dedak dang yang taktu trepar shok
And who teach me the Good Actions;
dedak dak gi namyang yi miyung
Never will I disappoint them!
8. Aspiration to See the Buddhas and Serve them in Person
sangye sé kyi korwé gönpo nam
May I always behold the buddhas, here before my eyes,
ngönsum taktu dak gi gyalwa ta
And around them all their bodhisattva sons and daughters.
ma ong kalpa küntu mikyowar
Without ever tiring, throughout all the aeons to come,
dedak la yang chöpa gyacher gyi
May the offerings I make them be endless and vast!
9. Aspiration to Keep the Dharma Thriving
gyalwa nam kyi dampé chö dzin ching
May I maintain the sacred teachings of the buddhas,
changchub chöpa küntu nangwar jé
And cause enlightened action to appear;
zangpo chöpa nampar jongwa yang
May I train to perfection in Good Actions,
ma ong kalpa küntu chepar gyi
And practise these in every age to come!
10. Aspiration to Acquire Inexhaustible Treasure
sipa tamché du yang khorwa na
As I wander through all states of samsaric existence,
sönam yeshe dak ni mizé nyé
May I gather inexhaustible merit and wisdom,
tab dang sherab tingdzin namtar dang
And so become an inexhaustible treasury of noble qualities—
yönten kün gyi mizé dzö du gyur
Of skill and discernment, samādhi and liberation!
11. Aspiration to the Different Methods for Entering into the “Good Actions”
a) Seeing the Buddhas and their Pure Realms
dul chik teng na dul nyé shying nam té
In a single atom may I see as many pure realms as atoms in the universe:
shying der sam gyi mikhyab sangye nam
And in each realm, buddhas beyond all imagining,
sangye sé kyi ü na shyukpa la
Encircled by all their bodhisattva heirs.
changchub chepa chö ching tawar gyi
Along with them, may I perform the actions of enlightenment!

detar malü tamché chok su yang
And so, in each direction, everywhere,
tra tsam khyön la dü sum tsé nyé kyi
Even on the tip of a hair, may I see an ocean of buddhas—
sangye gyatso shying nam gyatso dang
All to come in past, present and future—in an ocean of pure realms,
kalpa gyatso chö ching rabtu juk
And throughout an ocean of aeons, may I enter into enlightened action in each and every one!
b) Listening to the Speech of the Buddhas
sung chik yenlak gyatsö draké kyi
Each single word of a buddha’s speech, that voice with its ocean of qualities,
gyalwa kün yang yenlak namdakpa
Bears all the purity of the speech of all the buddhas,
drowa kün gyi sampa jishyin yang
Sounds that harmonize with the minds of all living beings:
sangye sung la taktu jukpar gyi
May I always be engaged with the speech of the buddhas!
c) Hearing the Turning of the Wheels of Dharma
dü sum shekpé gyalwa tamché dak
With all the power of my mind, may I hear and realize
khorlö tsul nam rabtu korwa yi
The inexhaustible melody of the teachings spoken by
dedak gi yang sung yang mizé la
All the buddhas of past, present and future,
lo yi tob kyi dak kyang rabtu juk
As they turn the wheels of Dharma!
d) Entering into All the Aeons
ma ong kalpa tamché jukpar yang
Just as the wisdom of the buddhas penetrates all future aeons,
kechik chik gi dak kyang jukpar gyi
So may I too know them, instantly,
gangyang kalpa dü sum tsé dedak
And in each fraction of an instant may I know
kechik chashé kyi ni shyukpar ché
All that will ever be, in past, present and future!
e) Seeing all the Buddhas in One Instant
dü sum shekpa mi yi sengé gang
In an instant, may I behold all those who are the lions of the human race—
dedak kechik chik la dak gi ta
The buddhas of past, present and future!
f) Entering the Sphere of Activity of the Buddhas
taktu dedak gi ni chöyul la
May I always be engaged in the buddhas’ way of life and action,
gyumar gyurpé namtar tob kyi juk
Through the power of liberation, where all is realized as like an illusion!
g). Accomplishing and Entering the Pure Lands
gangyang dü sum dak gi shying köpa
On a single atom, may I actually bring about
dedak dul chik tengdu ngönpar drub
The entire array of pure realms of past, of present and future;
detar malü chok nam tamché du
And then enter into those pure buddha realms
gyalwa dak gi shying nam kö la juk
In each atom, and in each and every direction.
h) Entering into the Presence of the Buddhas
gangyang majön jikten drönma nam
When those who illuminate the world, still to come,
dedak rimpar tsang gya khorlo kor
Gradually attain buddhahood, turn the Wheel of Dharma,
nya ngen depa rabtu shyi ta tön
And demonstrate the final, profound peace of nirvāṇa:
gönpo kün gyi drung du dak chi o
May I be always in their presence!
12. Aspiration to the Power of Enlightenment through Nine Powers
küntu nyurwé dzutrul tob nam dang
Through the power of swift miracles,
künné go yi tekpé tob dak dang
The power of the vehicle, like a doorway,
küntu yönten chöpé tob nam dang
The power of conduct that possesses all virtuous qualities,
küntu khyabpa jampa dak gi tob
The power of loving kindness, all-pervasive,

künné gewé sönam tob dak dang
The power of merit that is totally virtuous,
chakpa mepar gyurpé yeshe tob
The power of wisdom free from attachment, and
sherab tab dang tingdzin tob dak gi
The powers of knowledge, skilful means and samādhi,
changchub tob nam yangdak drubpar jé
May I perfectly accomplish the power of enlightenment!
13. Aspiration to the Antidotes that Pacify the Obscurations
lé kyi tob nam yongsu dakjé ching
May I purify the power of karma;
nyönmong tob nam küntu jompar jé
Destroy the power of harmful emotions;
dü kyi tob nam tobmé rabjé ching
Render negativity utterly powerless;
zangpo chöpé tob ni dzokpar gyi
And perfect the power of Good Actions!
14. Aspiration to Enlightened Activities
shying nam gyatso nampar dakjé ching
I shall purify oceans of realms;
semchen gyatso dak ni nampar drol
Liberate oceans of sentient beings;
chö nam gyatso rabtu tongjé ching
Understand oceans of Dharma;
yeshe gyatso rabtu tokpar jé
Realize oceans of wisdom;

chöpa gyatso nampar dakjé ching
Perfect oceans of actions;
mönlam gyatso yongsu dzokpar jé
Fulfil oceans of aspirations;
sangye gyatso rabtu chöjé ching
Serve oceans of buddhas!
kalpa gyatso mikyo chepar gyi
And perform these, without ever growing weary, through oceans of aeons!
15. Aspiration for Training
a) To Emulate the buddhas
gangyang dü sum shekpé gyalwa yi
All the buddhas throughout the whole of time,
changchub chöpé mönlam jedrak nam
Attained enlightenment through Good Actions, and
zangpo chöpé changchub sangye né
Their prayers and aspirations for enlightened action:
dé kün dak gi malü dzokpar gyi
May I fulfil them all completely!
b) To emulate the bodhisattvas: Samantabhadra
gyalwa kün gyi sé kyi tuwopa
The eldest of the sons of all the buddhas
gang gi ming ni kuntuzang shyeja
Is called Samantabhadra: ‘All-good’—
khepa dé dang tsungpar chepé chir
So that I may act with a skill like his,
gewa didak tamché rabtu ngo
I dedicate fully all these merits!

lü dang ngak dang yi kyang namdak ching
To purify my body, my speech and my mind as well,
chöpa namdak shying nam yong dakpa
To purify my actions, and all realms,
ngowa zangpo khepa chindrawa
May I be the equal of Samantabhadra
dendrar dak kyang dé dang tsungpar shok
In his skill in good dedication!
c) Mañjuśrī
künné gewa zangpo chepé chir
In order to perform the full virtue of Good Actions,
jampal gyi ni mönlam chepar gyi
I shall act according to Mañjuśrī's prayers of aspiration,
ma ong kalpa küntu mikyowar
And without ever growing weary, in all the aeons to come,
dé yi jawa malü dzokpar gyi
I shall perfectly fulfil every one of his aims!
16. Concluding Aspiration
chöpa dak ni tsé yö magyur chik
Let my bodhisattva acts be beyond measure!
yönten nam kyang tsé zung mepar shok
Let my enlightened qualities be measureless too!
chöpa tsemepa la né né kyang
Keeping to this immeasurable activity,
dedak trulpa tamché tsalwar gyi
May I accomplish all the miraculous powers of enlightenment!
Extent of the Aspiration
namkhé tartuk gyurpa ji tsampar
Sentient beings are as limitless
semchen malü ta yang deshyin té
As the boundless expanse of space;
ji tsam lé dang nyönmong tar gyurpa
So shall my prayers of aspiration for them
dak gi mönlam ta yang detsam mo
Be as limitless as their karma and harmful emotions!
The Benefits of Making Aspirations
1. The Benefits of Making Aspirations in General
gangyang chok chü shying nam tayepa
Whoever hears this king of dedication prayers,
rinchen gyen té gyalwa nam la pul
And yearns for supreme enlightenment,
lha dang mi yi dewé chok nam kyang
Who even once arouses faith,
shying gi dul nyé kalpar pulwa bé
Will gain true merit greater still

gang gi ngowé gyalpo di tö né
Than by offering the victorious buddhas
changchub chok gi jesu rab mö shing
Infinite pure realms in every directions, all ornamented with jewels,
len chik tsam yang depa kyepa na
Or offering them all the highest joys of gods and humans
sönam dampé chok tu di gyur ro
For as many aeons as there are atoms in those realms.
2. The Thirteen Benefits in Detail
gang gi zangchö mönlam di tabpé
Whoever truly makes this Aspiration to Good Actions,
dé ni ngensong tamché pongwar gyur
Will never again be born in lower realms;
dé ni drokpo ngenpa pangwa yin
They will be free from harmful companions, and
nangwa tayé deyang dé nyur tong
Soon behold the Buddha of Boundless Light.
dedak nyepa rab nyé dewar tso
They will acquire all kind of benefits, and live in happiness;
mitsé dir yang dedak lekpar ong
Even in this present life all will go well,
kuntuzangpo deyang chindrawar
And before long,
dedak ringpor mitok deshyin gyur
They will become just like Samantabhadra.

tsammé ngapo dak gi dikpa nam
All negative acts—even the five of immediate retribution—
gang gi mishe wang gi jepa dak
Whatever they have committed in the grip of ignorance,
dé yi zangpo chöpa di jö na
Will soon be completely purified,
nyurdu malü yongsu jangwar gyur
If they recite this Aspiration to Good Actions.

yeshe dang ni zuk dang tsen nam dang
They will possess perfect wisdom, beauty, and excellent signs,
rik dang khadok nam dang denpar gyur
Be born in a good family, and with a radiant appearance.
dü dang mutek mangpö dé mitub
Demons and heretics will never harm them,
jikten sumpo kün na ang chöpar gyur
And all three worlds will honour them with offerings.

changchub shingwang drung du dé nyur dro
They will quickly go beneath the bodhi-tree,
song né semchen pen chir der duk té
And there, they will sit, to benefit all sentient beings, then
changchub sangye khorlo rabtu kor
Awaken into enlightenment, turn the wheel of Dharma,
dü nam dé dang chepa tamché tul
And tame Māra with all his hordes.
3. The Benefits in Brief
gangyang zangpo chöpé mönlam di
The full result of keeping, teaching, or reading
changwa dang ni tön tam lok na yang
This Prayer of Aspiration to Good Actions
dé yi nampar minpa ang sangye khyen
Is known to the buddhas alone:
changchub chok la somnyi majé chik
Have no doubt: supreme enlightenment will be yours!
Dedication of the Merits of this Meritorious Aspiration
1. Dedication that Follows the Bodhisattvas
jampal pawö jitar khyenpa dang
Just as the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī attained omniscience,
kuntuzangpo deyang deshyin té
And Samantabhadra too
dedak kün gyi jesu dak lob chir
All these merits now I dedicate
gewa didak tamché rabtu ngo
To train and follow in their footsteps.
2. Dedication that Follows the Buddhas
dü sum shekpé gyalwa tamché kyi
As all the victorious buddhas of past, present and future
ngowa gangla chok tu ngakpa dé
Praise dedication as supreme,
dak gi gewé tsawa di kün kyang
So now I dedicate all these roots of virtue
zangpo chö chir rabtu ngowar gyi
For all beings to perfect Good Actions.
3. Dedication towards Actualizing the Result
dak ni chiwé dü jé gyurpa na
When it is time for me to die,
dribpa tamché dak ni chir sal té
Let all that obscures me fade away, so
ngönsum nangwa tayé dé tong né
I look on Amitābha, there in person,
dewachen gyi shying der rabtu dro
And go at once to his pure land of Sukhāvatī.

der song né ni mönlam didak kyang
In that pure land, may I actualize every single one
tamché malü ngön du gyurwar shok
Of all these aspirations!
dedak malü dak gi yongsu kang
May I fulfil them, each and every one,
jikten jisi semchen penpar gyi
And bring help to beings for as long as the universe remains!
4. Dedication towards Receiving a Prophecy from the Buddhas
gyalwé kyilkhor zang shying gawa der
Born there in a beautiful lotus flower,
pemo dampa shintu dzé lé kyé
In that excellent and joyous buddha realm,
nangwa tayé gyalwé ngönsum du
May the Buddha Amitābha himself
lungtenpa yang dak gi der tob shok
Grant me the prophecy foretelling my enlightenment!
5. Dedication towards Serving Others
der ni dak gi lungten rab tob né
Having received the prophecy there,
trulpa mangpo jewa trak gya yi
With my billions of emanations,
lo yi tob kyi chok chu nam su yang
Sent out through the power of my mind,
semchen nam la penpa mangpo gyi
May I bring enormous benefit to sentient beings, in all the ten directions!
Conclusion
zangpo chöpé mönlam tabpa yi
Through whatever small virtues I have gained
gewa chungzé dak gi chi sakpa
By reciting this “Aspiration to Good Actions”,
dé ni drowé mönlam gewa nam
May the virtuous wishes of all beings’ prayers and aspirations
kechik chik gi tamché jorwar shok
All be instantly accomplished!

gangyang zangpo chöpa di ngöpé
Through the true and boundless merit
sönam tayé dampa gang tob dé
Attained by dedicating this “Aspiration to Good Actions”,
drowa dukngal chuwor jingwa nam
May all those now drowning in the ocean of suffering,
öpakmepé né rab tobpar shok
Reach the supreme realm of Amitābha!

mönlam gyalpo didak chok gi tso
May this King of Aspirations bring about
tayé drowa kün la pen jé ching
The supreme aim and benefit of all infinite sentient beings;
kuntuzangpö gyenpé shyung drub té
May they perfect what is described in this holy prayer, uttered by Samantabhadra!
ngensong né nam malü tongpar shok
May the lower realms be entirely emptied!
This completes the King of Aspiration Prayers, Samantabhadra’s “Aspiration to Good Actions.”

Words of Truth to Accomplish Aspirations
sangye ku sum nyepé jinlab dang
By the blessings of the buddhas who have attained the three kāyas,
chönyi mingyur denpé jinlab dang
And the unchanging truth of reality
gendün miché dünpé jinlab kyi
As well as the unwavering aspirations of the Saṅgha,
jitar ngö shyin mönlam drubpar shok
May all the aspirations and dedication prayers be fulfilled!
The dhāraṇī for the accomplishment of all aspirations
teyatha pentsa indriya awabodhanaye soha
tadyathā pañcendriyāvabodhanīye svāhā

| Rigpa Translations, 1996

Version: 2.4-20211018