The Verses of the Eight Noble Auspicious Ones
by Mipham Rinpoche

It is very important to recite this through once before starting on any activity; whatever the
project, it will work out exactly as you wish.

om, nangsi namdak rangshyin lhündrubpé
Oṃ! Homage to the Buddha, Dharma and Noble Saṅgha—
tashi chok chü shying na shyukpa yi
All that dwell in the auspicious realms of the ten directions,
sangye chö dang gendün pakpé tsok
Where appearance and existence is completely pure, its nature spontaneously perfect,
kün la chaktsal dakchak tashi shok
May everything be auspicious for us all!

drönmé gyalpo tsalten döndrup gong
King of Lamps, Steadfast and Powerful One Whose Vision Fulfils All Aims,
jampé gyen pal gedrak paldampa
Glorious Ornament of Love, Sacred Splendour Renowned for Virtue,
künla gongpa gyacher drakpa chen
The One Whose Concern for All Brings Him Universal Renown,
lhünpo tar paktsal drakpal dang ni
Glorious One as Renowned as Mount Meru in Eminence and Might,
semchen tamchela gong drakpé pal
Glorious One Renowned as Caring for All Sentient Beings,
yitsim dzepa tsal rab drakpal té
Glorious One Renowned as Most Powerful in Satisfying Wishes—
tsen tsam töpé tashi pal pelwa
Homage to you, the Eight Sugatas,
dewar shekpa gyé la chaktsal lo
Merely hearing your names increases auspiciousness and success!

jampal shyönnu palden dorjé dzin
Youthful Mañjuśrī, glorious Vajrapāṇi,
chenrezik wang gönpo jampé pal
Lord Avalokiteśvara, protector Maitreya,
sa yi nyingpo dribpa nampar sel
Kṣitigarbha, Sarvanīvaraṇaviṣkambhin,
namkhé nyingpo pakchok kuntuzang
Ākāśagarbha, and Samantabhadra noblest of all—
utpal dorjé pekar lushing dang
Utpala ﬂower, vajra, white lotus, nāga-tree,
norbu dawa raldri nyima yi
Jewel, moon, sword and sun—
chaktsen lek nam tashi pal gyi chok
Gracefully holding your emblems, and supreme in granting auspiciousness and success,
changchub sempa gyé la chaktsal lo
Homage to you, the Eight Bodhisattvas!

rinchen duk chok tashi ser gyi nya
The most precious umbrella, the auspicious golden fishes,
dö jung bum zang yi ong kamala
The wish-fulﬁlling vase of goodness, the exquisite kamala flower,
nyendrak dung dang püntsok pal be'u
The conch of fame and glory, the glorious knot of prosperity,
minub gyaltsen wanggyur khorlo té
The eternal banner of victory and the all-powerful wheel:
rinchen tak chok gyé kyi chaktsen chen
Holding these eight most precious emblems
chok dü gyalwa chö ching gyé kyema
Are the creators of delight, making offerings to the buddhas of all directions and times.
gek sok ngowo drenpé pal pelwé
Homage to you, the Eight Auspicious Goddesses—Beauty, Garlands, Song, Dance, Flowers, Incense,
Light and Perfume—
tashi lhamo gyé la chaktsal lo
Merely thinking of you makes success grow more and more!

tsangpa chenpo dejung semebu
Mighty Brahmā, Śiva1 and Viṣṇu,
mik tong den dang gyalpo yulkhor sung
Indra the thousand-eyed, the kings Dhṛtarāṣṭra,
pak kyepo dang luwang mikmizang
Virūdhaka, Virūpakṣa the lord of nāgas,
namtösé té lhadzé khorlo dang
And Vaiśravaṇa—each one holding your divine emblem:
trishula dang dungtung dorjé chen
Wheel, trident, lance, vajra,
piwam raldri chöten gyaltsen dzin
Vīṇā, sword, stūpa and banner of victory—
sa sum né su gelek tashi pel
Homage to you, the Eight Guardians of the World,
jikten kyongwa gyé la chaktsal lo
Who make auspiciousness and positivity grow in the three realms!

dakchak deng dir jawa tsompa la
With all obstacles and harmful influences paciﬁed,
gek dang nyewar tsewa kün shyi né
May the work we are now about to begin
dödön pal pel samdön yishyin drub
Meet with ever-growing fulﬁlment and success, and
tashi delek pünsum tsokpar shok
Bring good fortune, prosperity, happiness and peace!

“Recite this prayer when you wake up, and you will accomplish all your aims for the day. Recite
it when you go to sleep, and you will have good dreams. Recite it before a conflict, and
you will be completely victorious. Recite it when you embark on any project, and you will
be successful. If you recite this prayer every day, the length of your life, your splendour,
renown, and wealth will all increase, you will find perfect happiness, you will accomplish
your aims exactly as you wish, all harmful actions and obscurations will be purified
and all your wishes for higher realms, liberation and omniscience will be fulfilled.” These
are the words of the Buddha himself.
This prayer arose from the lake of Jampal Gyepé Dorjé’s mind on the third day of the third month
of the Fire Monkey year (1896), an auspicious time according to the configuration of
planets, sun and constellations.

| Rigpa Translations
↑ In this verse, Śiva is given the name Śambhu and Viṣṇu is called Nārāyaṇa.