Wisdom’s Bestowal
A Way to Accumulate the Recitation of the Tantra Chanting the Names of Mañjuśrī, Mañjuśrī Nāma
Saṃgīti
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

Namo Guru Jñānakāyāya
Four instructions can be followed to accumulate recitations of the tantra Chanting the Names
of Mañjuśrī, Mañjuśrī Nāma Saṃgīti.
I. Recitation as a Praise to Mañjuśrī's Formidable Qualities
Beginners who do not practice the profound yoga, and even practitioners of the profound yoga
taking breaks between sessions, who wish to recite the tantra as a praise to Mañjuśrī's formidable
qualities, should begin by giving rise to a sense of faith, renunciation, and two-fold
bodhicitta while reciting the following phrases three times in order to take refuge
and generate bodhicitta:
lama sangye chö tsok la
Until enlightenment I take refuge
changchub bardu kyab su chi
In the Lama, Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha.
shyendön dzok jang tob jé chir
To achieve perfect awakening for others,
zabmö gyüdé lakpar gyi
I shall recite this profound tantra.
Repeat three times. Then:
rang dün namkhar yi trokpé
Ārya Jetsün Mañjuśrī
chötrin gyatso trikpé ü
Appears instantly in the sky before me,
pé dé den la kechik gi
Seated upon a lotus and moon
jetsün pakpa jampé yang
Set amidst cloud-banks of ravishing offerings.
kudok ser gyi lhünpo ni
He shines as brilliant as a mountain of gold
tsam trin sarpé khyü shyin dzé
Rising above the whitest of clouds,
shyi dzum gyé nyi langtsö pal
And with a gentle smile, he is the very epitome of youth,
ngotsar tsenpé pungpor bar
A sixteen year old blazing with all the major and minor marks.
shyal chik chak shyi dangpo nyi
He has one face and four hands. His first pair of hands
sherab raldri lekbam dang
Holds a sword of wisdom and a book,
okmé tabshé dashyu nam
While the remaining pair
dawé gyab yol la ten né
Holds the bow of method and the arrow of wisdom.
shyab nyi dorjé kyiltrung shyuk
Seated in the lotus posture, he rests his back against a moon.
natsok dar gyi shamtab dang
He wears a skirt of various silks
rinchen gyen gyi nampar gyen
Adorned with the finest jewels.
zurpü utpalar nepé
His hair, braided with utpala flowers, is tied up upon his crown,
mi kyö rik kyi dakpor ché
Where the lord of the family Akṣobhya abides.
khalam wangpö shyu tabu
This empty yet apparent kāya of wisdom
nangtong zungjuk yeshe ku
Appears clear and vivid –
ngönsum shyindu salwar gyur
Like a rainbow in the sky.
ema sangye changsem dang
O wonder! Mañjuśrī, you find no equivalent
nyentö ranggyal tsang wang sok
In the appearance of saṃsāra and of nirvāṇa,
sishyi nyamgyur jinyé kün
Amongst buddhas, bodhisattvas,
jampé pal lé shyen min chir
Śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas,
tayé shejé jé songwé
Nor are Brahma and Indra – the greatest of the gods – your equal!
tsen dang ku yi köpa dang
Therefore, the names and kāyas that you display
yönten kha dang nyom jukpar
In accordance with the infinite array of knowables,
miché chok tu güpé lö
As well as your qualities, cannot be contained within the vastness of the sky;
ngak gi norbü tambura
They fill my mind with the greatest, incontrovertible devotion.
yeshe lüchen jampal gyi
So with a voice that resounds with the gentle beauty of a tamboura,
dorjé tsendön yangdakpar
I sing the adamantine names of the embodiment of pure wisdom.
jöpé dang su pöpa yi
When the liturgy of your adamantine names is set to melody,
khyen tsé nü pé gyü kulwé
The qualities of your knowledge, love, and power are invoked,
tukjé özer pak yepa
Causing compassion’s brilliance
sa sum khyabpar rabtu trö
To illuminate the three-fold world in all its entirety.
dak dang yichen tamché kyi
This recitation banishes the darkness of the two-fold obscurations
tokmé né sak diktung dang
And eliminates the negativity and downfalls
drib nyi münpa kün sal né
Gathered by both myself and all others since time without beginning.
jita jinyé sheja la
It causes the lotus blossom of supreme mind to bloom,
lo chok pemo gyepar gyur
Awakening the two knowledges of nature and phenomena in their multiplicity.
With your mind single-pointed in devotion, recite this most regal of tantras as many times as
you can.
To elaborate a little you can recite the following:
om sarva dharma bhava sobhava bishuddha benza a a am ah prakriti parishuddha sarva dharma yad
uta sarva tathagata jnanakaya manjushri pari shuddhitam upadayeti am ah sarva tathagata
hridaya hara hara om hung hrih bhagavan jnanamurti vagishvara mahapatsa sarvadharma gaganamala
dharmadhatu jnanagarbha ah
(or any other mantra you deem appropriate), for to do so is said to be virtuous. Whichever you
choose, at its conclusion continue with:
ngö dang yi lé jungwa yi
Samantabhadra's oceanic clouds of the finest of offerings,
kunzang chöpé trin gyatsö
Both actually laid out and mentally conjured,
sipa tar jé desi du
Are arranged to fill the whole of existence—
jampal shyönnu nyé gyur chik
May they please you, ever-youthful Mañjuśrī!
Offer with:
om arya manjushri argham padyam pupé dhupé aloké gendhé nevidé shapta pratitsa soha
oṃ ārya mañjuśrī arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda pratīccha svāhā
Supplicate with:
sé ché gyalwa tamché kyi
Homage to you, Mañjuśrī,
yeshe pungpo chik düpa
Sole embodiment of the wisdom
si shyi kün gyi pal gyurpé
Of all buddhas and bodhisattvas.
jampé yang la chaktsal lo
You bring glory and splendour to all of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
gönpo khyö kyi dorjé tsen
Protector, with the perfect recitation
yangdak jöpé rab ngak dak
Of your adamantine names I shall praise you fully—
deng né changchub nyingpö bar
From this moment onward, until my awakening,
gyé shyin jesu zungwar dzö
Please hold me in your care with joy.
nekab tsul né tö sam dang
Mañjuśrī, sun of speech,
gompé lodrö rabgyé shing
Bless me so that, in the short term,
ché tsö tsom la tsungmé pé
The wisdoms of study, contemplation, and meditation will blossom fully,
mawé nyimar jingyi lob
And I may teach, debate, and compose without equal.
tartuk shé dang sheja kün
Ultimately, may I achieve the wisdom kāya
miché yeshe ku tob né
That knows all percepts and things,
dro nam jampal shyönnu yi
To lead all beings
gopang chok la gö gyur chik
To the supreme state of the ever-youthful Mañjuśrī.
Conclude your practice with the following and other suitable prayers and dedications.
zö né trödral jampé pal
Mañjuśrī, you are ever free from elaboration,
tenjung gyumé ngang tsul gyi
But in the illusory forms of dependent arising
nangchar sharwé yeshepa
You burst forth as the embodiment of wisdom,
rangshyin chö kyi ying su shek
Which returns to the natural dharmadhātu.
di drubpa lé jungwa yi
By the power of all possible merit
gewa dak gi gang tobpa
I have created through this practice,
dé ni kyewo tamché kyi
May all beings
deshek sherab tobpar shok
Come to enjoy the wisdom of the Sugatas.
II. Recitation as Secret Mantra by Uniting with Mañjuśrī's Nature
Another method is as follows: Begin with the preliminaries of refuge and bodhicitta, and then
recite:
om sobhawa shuddha sarwa dharma sobhawa shuddho ham
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Then recite the above prayer starting from, ‘From within emptiness, I instantly appear as Ārya
Jetsün Mañjuśrī seated in the sky...’ down to 'appears clear and vivid – like a rainbow
in the sky'.
tukkar dawé kyilkhor teng
Upon a moon mandala at my heart
kyemé dön tsön a karpo
Appears the symbol of the unborn, a white A.
de le dorjé tsik gi gyü
The vajra sound of the tantra
tenjung dranyen tabü tsul
Arises like an echo in dependence upon this syllable
kyé tsam nyi né kyegak sok
Without fixation on characteristics such as arising or ceasing, and
tröpé tsenma ma mikpa
Mindful of the kāya of wisdom
zab sal nyimé yeshé ku
Beyond the duality of profound purity and clear light,
jesu drenpé ngang né lak
I will read the tantra.
Thereafter, make your prayers and dedications, such as, ‘By the power of all possible merit...’,
and engage in the post-meditative activities.
di drubpa lé jungwa yi
By the power of all possible merit
gewa dak gi gang tobpa
I have created through this practice,
dé ni kyewo tamché kyi
May all beings
deshek sherab tobpar shok
Come to enjoy the wisdom of the Sugatas.
III. Recitation as Secret Mantra by Maintaining One's Yidam Vajra Pride
You could also meditate upon the above while holding the divine pride and visualizing yourself
as your yidam deity. Any deity is suitable, but if the deity is a wrathful one, change
the above moon mandala to a sun mandala. Aside from this, this practice is no different from
the practice described above.
IV. Recitation Abiding by Selflessness
Should you wish to practice in an unelaborate, non-conceptual way, begin with the practices
of refuge and bodhicitta, then recite the tantra without any deviation from selflessness,
never forgetting that all phenomena are dreamlike, and all sounds are echoes. Then dedicate
the merit and so on.

To essentialize all these approaches in a brief recitation practice, begin with the preliminary
practices of refuge, bodhicitta, and so forth. Instantly visualize yourself as the deity
in the way it is described in the yoga of Mañjuśrī. Then imagine the deity Mañjuśrī before
you, and recite the tantra as a praise to his formidable qualities.
Never forget that your form appears as if a rainbow, your speech as an echo, and that your mind
is like the sky – beyond any and all elaboration.
At the conclusion of the recitation, make the offerings, praises, prayers, etc.
Colophon
The source of these practices is a text composed by Jetsün Rinpoche Drakpa Gyaltsen that he
appended to the transmission of the tantra. In addition, the tantra says in the praise to
the Fourth Wheel, having mentioned the significance of each name and also Mañjuśrī's wisdom
kāya having manifested, '...meditate with single-pointed mind' (i.e. arise as the deity),
'have great aspiration' (i.e. exceptional qualities), and 'realize suchness' (i.e. selflessness),
indicating successively each of these approaches.
Those who exert themselves in this way will receive the continual blessing of the buddhas and
bodhisattvas; they will become courageous and be able to influence the śrāvakas and pratyekyabuddhas,
and the gods of this world and beyond will protect them. In all future lifetimes,
no unfavorable conditions will be theirs; they will know no fear, will always gather
favorable conditions, and have great memory, intelligence, ethics, concentration, and so
on. They will gain inconceivable qualities, which will not deteriorate but increase, and they
will swiftly awaken to the state of perfect buddhahood.
As you can see, inconceivable merits are to be gained through the recitation of this tantra.
Keep in mind the benefits as mentioned in the sections praising these benefits, and know
that the wise will always make a single-pointed endeavor to recite this tantra.
To fulfil the needs of both myself and others, this learned hermit Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo took
the writings of Jetsün Rinpoche Drakpa Gyaltsen as the basis for this composition, and
added a few clarifications from the various sayings and notes of Sakya Paṇḍita. May it prove
virtuous!

om svasti
Oṃ Svasti
sé ché gyalwé yeshe kuchen jampal tsendön jöpé yang
Chanting the laden names of Mañjuśrī, the embodiment of the wisdom of the Victor and his heirs,
gyüdé gyatsö nyingpor yong nang lek sung par du drubpé gé
Is the essence of the ocean of tantras manifesting in excellent words; through the merit of
printing them,
tendzin shyabten tenpa dargyé jindak dé shyi paljor pel
May the life of every holder of the teachings be long, the teachings spread and flourish, the
benefactors of the four categories see their wealth increase,
dro kün pendé gatön dar bab künkhyen gopang nyur tob shok
And all wandering beings rejoice in the feast of happiness and well-being, be ever youthful
and swiftly attain omniscience.

This practice was written by the practitioner of virtue Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo. May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Sean Price (Gelong Tenzin Jamchen), 2014.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po . "'phags pa 'jam dpal gyi mtshan yang dag par brjod pa'i rgyud
kyi bklags thabs ye shes grub ster/." In bka' ma rgyas pa. Kalimpong, W.B.: Dupjung Lama,
1982-1987. BDRC W19229. Vol. 4: 31–38.

Version: 1.3-20211124